0
2
0
2

t
c
O
2
2

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

2
v
8
0
2
4
0
.
5
0
0
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

Condensed Movies:
Story Based Retrieval with Contextual Embeddings

Max Bain, Arsha Nagrani, Andrew Brown, and Andrew Zisserman

Visual Geometry Group, Department of Engineering Science, University of Oxford
{maxbain,arsha,abrown,az}@robots.ox.ac.uk

Abstract. Our objective in this work is long range understanding of the narra-
tive structure of movies. Instead of considering the entire movie, we propose to
learn from the ‘key scenes’ of the movie, providing a condensed look at the full
storyline. To this end, we make the following three contributions: (i) We create
the Condensed Movies Dataset (CMD) consisting of the key scenes from over
3K movies: each key scene is accompanied by a high level semantic description
of the scene, character face-tracks, and metadata about the movie. The dataset
is scalable, obtained automatically from YouTube, and is freely available for any-
body to download and use. It is also an order of magnitude larger than existing
movie datasets in the number of movies; (ii) We provide a deep network baseline
for text-to-video retrieval on our dataset, combining character, speech and
visual cues into a single video embedding; and finally (iii) We demonstrate how
the addition of context from other video clips improves retrieval performance.

1 Introduction

Imagine you are watching the movie ‘Trading Places’, and you want to instantly fast
forward to a scene, one where ‘Billy reveals the truth to Louis about the Duke’s bet, a bet
which changed both their lives’. In order to solve this task automatically, an intelligent
system would need to watch the movie up to this point, have knowledge of Billy, Louis
and the Duke’s identities, understand that the Duke made a bet, and know the outcome
of this bet (Fig. 1). This high level understanding of the movie narrative requires
knowledge of the characters’ identities, their relationships, motivations and conversations,
and ultimately their behaviour. Since movies and TV shows can provide an ideal source
of data to test this level of story understanding, there have been a number of movie
related datasets and tasks proposed by the computer vision community [1,2,3,4,5].

However, despite the recent proliferation of movie-related datasets, high level semantic
understanding of human narratives still remains a challenging task. There are a number
of reasons for this lack of progress: (i) semantic annotation is expensive and challenging
to obtain, inherently restricting the size of current movie datasets to only hundreds of
movies, and often, only part of the movie is annotated in detail [1,2,3]; (ii) movies are very
long (roughly 2 hours) and video architectures struggle to learn over such large timescales;
(iii) there are legal and copyright issues surrounding a majority of these datasets [1,3],
which hinder their widespread availability and adoption in the community; and finally
(iv) the subjective nature of the task makes it difficult to define objectives and metrics [?].
A number of different works have recently creatively identified that certain domains of
videos, such as narrated instructional videos [6,7,8] and lifestyle vlogs [9,10] are available

 
 
 
 
 
 
2

M. Bain et al.

Fig. 1: Condensed Movies: The dataset consists of the key scenes in a movie (ordered
by time), together with high level semantic descriptions. Note how the caption of a scene
(far right) is based on the knowledge of past scenes in the movie – one where the Dukes
exchange money to settle their bet (highlighted in yellow), and another scene showing their
lives before the bet, homeless and pan-handling (highlighted in green).

in large numbers on YouTube and are a good source of supervision for video-text models
as the speech describes the video content. In a similar spirit, videos from the MovieClips
channel on YouTube1, which contains the key scenes or clips from numerous movies,
are also accompanied by a semantic text description describing the content of each clip.
Our first objective in this paper is to curate a dataset, suitable for learning and
evaluating long range narrative structure understanding, from the available video clips
and associated annotations of the MovieClips channel. To this end, we curate a dataset
of ‘condensed’ movies, called the Condensed Movie Dataset (CMD) which provides
a condensed snapshot into the entire storyline of a movie. In addition to just the video,
we also download and clean the high level semantic descriptions accompanying each key
scene that describes characters, their motivations, actions, scenes, objects, interactions
and relationships. We also provide labelled face-tracks of the principal actors (generated
automatically), as well as the metadata associated with the movie (such as cast lists,
synopsis, year, genre). Essentially, all the information required to (sparsely) generate
a MovieGraph [4]. The dataset consists of over 3000 movies.

Previous work on video retrieval and video understanding has largely treated video
clips as independent entities, divorced from their context [2,11,12]. But this is not
how movies are understood: the meaning and significance of a scene depends on its
relationship to previous scenes. This is true also of TV series, where one episode depends
on those leading up to it (the season arc); and even an online tutorial/lesson can refer to
previous tutorials. These contextual videos are beneficial and sometimes even necessary
for complete video understanding.

Our second objective is to explore the role of context in enabling video retrieval. We
define a text-to-video retrieval task on the CMD, and extend the popular Mixture of
Embedding Experts model [13], that can learn from the subtitles, faces, objects, actions
and scenes, by adding a Contextual Boost Module that introduces information from past
and future clips. Unlike other movie related tasks – e.g. text-to-video retrieval on the
LSMDC dataset [2] or graph retrieval on the MovieQA [14] dataset that ignore identities,
we also introduce a character embedding module which allows the model to reason
about the identities of characters present in each clip and description. Applications

1 https://www.youtube.com/user/movieclips

Billy reveals the truth to Louis about the Duke's bet which changed both their lives.. . .Billy gets busted by the cops for pan-handling in disguise as a blind, crippled Vietnam War veteran.Billy discovers the true nature of Mortimer and Randolph Duke’s bet.timeCondensed Movies

3

of this kind of story-based retrieval include semantic search and indexing of movies
as well as intelligent fast forwards. The CMD dataset can also be used for semantic
video summarisation and automatic description of videos for the visually impaired
(Descriptive Video Services (DVS) are currently available at a huge manual cost).

Finally, we also show preliminary results for aligning the semantic captions to
the plot summaries of each movie, which places each video clip in the larger con-
text of the movie as a whole. Data, code, models and features can be found at
https://www.robots.ox.ac.uk/~vgg/research/condensed-movies/.

2 Related Work

Video Understanding from Movies: There is an increasing effort to develop video
understanding techniques that go beyond action classification from cropped, short tem-
poral snippets [15,16,17], to learning from longer, more complicated videos that promise
a higher level of abstraction [18,19,6,20]. Movies and TV shows provide an ideal test bed
for learning long-term stories, leading to a number of recent datasets focusing exclusively
on this domain [1,14,2,3]. Early works, however, focused on using film and TV to learn
human identity [21,22,23,24,25,26] or human actions [27,28,29,30,31] from the scripts
or captions accompanying movies. Valuable recent works have proposed story-based
tasks such as the visualisation and grouping of scenes which belong to the same story
threads [32,33], the visualisation of TV episodes as a chart of character interactions [1],
and more recently, the creation of more complicated movie graphs (MovieGraphs [4]
is the most exhaustively annotated movie dataset to date). Such graphs have enabled
explicit learning of interactions and relationships [34] between characters. This requires
understanding multiple factors such as human communication, emotions, motivation,
scenes and other factors that affect behavior. There has also been a recent interest in
evaluating story understanding through visual question answering [14] and movie scene
segmentation [33]. In contrast, we propose to evaluate story understanding through the
task of text-to-video retrieval, from a set of key scenes in a movie that condense most of
the salient parts of the storyline. Unlike retrieval through a complex graph [4], retrieval
via text queries can be a more intuitive way for a human to interact with an intelligent
system, and might help avoid some of the biases present inherently in VQA datasets [35].
Comparison to other Movie Datasets: Existing movie datasets often consist of
short clips spanning entire, full length movies (which are subject to copyright and
difficult for public release to the community). All such datasets also depend on ex-
haustive annotation, which limit their scale to hundreds of movies. Our dataset, in
contrast, consists of only the key scenes from movies matched with high quality, high
level semantic descriptions, allowing for a condensed look at the entire storyline. A
comparison of our dataset to other datasets can be seen in Table 1.
Text-to-Video Retrieval:

A common approach for learning visual embeddings from natural language supervision
is to learn a joint embedding space where visual and textual cues are adjacent if they are
semantically similar [13,38]. Most of these works rely on manually annotated datasets in
which descriptive captions are collected for short, isolated video clips, with descriptions
usually focusing on low-level visual content provided by annotators [2,12,11]. For
example LSMDC [2], which is created from DVS, contains mostly low-level descriptions
of the visual content in the scene, e.g. ‘Abby gets in the basket’, unlike the descriptions
in our dataset.

4

M. Bain et al.

Table 1: Comparison to other movie and TV show datasets. For completeness, we also
compare to datasets that only have character ID or action annotation. ‘Free’ is defined here
as accessible online at no cost at the time of writing. *Refers to number of TV shows.

#Movies #Hours Free

Annotation Type

Sherlock [36]
TVQA[37]
AVA [16]
MovieGraphs [4]
MovieQA (video)[14]
MovieScenes [33]
LSMDC [2]
MSA [3]
MovieNet[5]

(cid:88)

1*
6*
430
51
140
150
202
327
1,100

4
460
107.5
93.9
381
250
158
516
2,000

CMD (Ours)

3,605

1,270

(cid:88)

Character IDs
VQA
Actions only
Descriptions, graphs
VQA
Scene segmentations
Captions
Plots
Plots, action tags, character IDs

Descriptions, metadata,
character IDs, plots

Most similar to our work is [39], which obtains story level descriptions for shots in
full movies, by aligning plot sentences to shots, and then attempting video retrieval.
This, however, is challenging because often there is no shot that matches a plot sen-
tence perfectly, and shots cover very small timescales. Unlike this work our semantic
descriptions are more true to the clips themselves.

Temporal Context: The idea of exploiting surrounding context has been explored
by [40], for the task of video captioning, and by [41] for video understanding. Krishna
et al. [40] introduces a new captioning module that uses contextual information from
past and future events to jointly describe all events, however this work focuses on short
term context (few seconds before and after a particular clip). Wu et al. [41] go further,
and introduce a feature bank architecture that can use contextual information over
several minutes, demonstrating the performance improvements that results. Our dataset
provides the opportunity to extend such feature banks (sparsely) over an entire movie.

3 Condensed Movie Dataset

We construct a dataset to facilitate machine understanding of narratives in long movies.
Our dataset has the following key properties:
(1) Condensed Storylines: The video data consists of over 33,000 clips from 3,600
movies (see Table 2). For each movie there is a set of ordered clips (typically 10 or
so) covering the salient parts of the film (examples can be seen in Fig. 2, top row).
Each around two minutes in length, the clips contain the same rich and complex
story as full-length films but an order of magnitude shorter. The distribution of video
lengths in our dataset can be seen in Fig. 2 – with just the key scenes, each movie
has been condensed into roughly 20 minutes each. Each clip is also accompanied by
a high level description focusing on intent, emotion, relationships between characters
and high level semantics (Fig. 2 and 3). Compared to other video-text datasets, our
descriptions are longer, and have a higher lexical diversity [42] (Table 2). We also
provide face-tracks and identity labels for the main characters in each clip (Fig. 2,
bottom row).

Condensed Movies

5

Fig. 2: The Condensed Movie Dataset (CMD). Top: Samples of clips and their corre-
sponding captions from The Karate Kid (1984) film. In movies, as in real life, situations follow
from other situations and the combination of video and text tell a concise story. Note: Every time
a character is mentioned in the description, the name of the actor is present in brackets. We re-
move these from the figure in the interest of space. Middle, from left to right: Histogram of movie
genres, movie release years, description length and duration of video clips. Best viewed online and
zoomed in. Bottom: Example face-tracks labelled with the actor’s name in the clips. These labels
are obtained from cast lists and assigned to face-tracks using our automatic labelling pipeline.

(2) Online Longevity and Scalability: All the videos are obtained from the li-
censed, freely available YouTube channel: MovieClips by Fandango. We note that a
common problem plaguing YouTube datasets today [43,16,15,44] is the fast shrinkage
of datasets as user uploaded videos are taken down by users (over 15% of Kinetics-
400 [15] is no longer available on YouTube at the time of writing, including videos
from the eval sets). We believe our dataset has longevity due to the fact that the
movie clips on the licensed channel are rarely taken down from YouTube. Also,
this is an actively growing YouTube channel as new movies are released and added.
Hence there is a potential to continually increase the size of the dataset. We note
that from the period of 1st Jan 2020, to 1st September 2020, only 0.3% of videos
have been removed from the YouTube channel, while an additional 2,000 videos
have been uploaded, resulting in a dataset growth of 5.8% over the course of 9
months.

3.1 Dataset Collection Pipeline

In this section we describe the dataset collection pipeline.
Videos and Descriptions: Raw videos are downloaded from YouTube. Each video is
accompanied by an outro at the end of the clip which contains some advertising

Daniel's attempt to defend Ali from Johnny ends in embarrassing fashion.Daniel is skeptical when Mr. Miyagi tells him to wax a series of cars during their ﬁrst karate lesson.Daniel surprises his teacher Mr. Miyagi when he is able to catch a ﬂy with chopsticks on his ﬁrst try.Daniel continues to train with Mr. Miyagi and learns a stark lesson on concentration.Despite illegal moves from the Cobra Kai that bring him to the ground, Daniel delivers one ﬁnal kick and wins the championship.6

M. Bain et al.

Table 2: Comparison to other video text retrieval datasets. MTLD is the Measure of Textual
Lexical Diversity [?] for all of the descriptions in the dataset.

Dataset

#Videos/#Clips

Median caption
len. (words)

MTLD

Median clip
len. (secs)

MSVRTT [11]
DiDemo [12]
LSMDC [2]
CMD (Ours)

7,180/10,000
10,464/26,892
200/118,114
3,605/33,976

7
7
8
18

26.9
39.9
61.6
89.1

15
28
5
132

Fig. 3: Semantic descriptions: Examples of high level semantic descriptions accompanying
each video clip in our dataset (note: actor names are removed to preserve space). Our semantic
descriptions cover a number of high level concepts, including intent/motivation, relationships,
emotions and attributes, and context from surrounding clips in the storyline.

and links to other movies. This is automatically removed by using the observa-
tion that each outro has a consistent length of either 10s (if the clip is uploaded
before May 2017) or 30s if uploaded after. Approximately 1,000 videos from the
channel were manually excluded from the dataset because they contained low qual-
ity descriptions or did not contain scenes from a movie. For each video, we also
download the YouTube closed captions, these are a mix of high quality, human
generated subtitles and automatic captions. Closed captions are missing for 36.7%
of the videos. The MovieClips channel also provides a rich and high level descrip-
tion with each video, which we extract, clean (removing the movie title, links and
advertising) and verify manually. We note that the videos also contain a water-
mark, usually at the bottom left of the frame. These can be easily cropped from the
videos.
Metadata: For each clip, we identify its source movie by parsing the movie title
from the video description and, if available, the release year (since many movies
have non-unique titles). The title and release year are queried in the IMDb search
engine to obtain the movie’s IMDb ID, cast list and genre. IMDb identification en-
ables correspondence to other popular movie datasets [14,45]. Plot synopses were
gathered by querying the movie title and release year in the Wikipedia search
engine and extracting text within the ‘Plot’ section of the top ranked entry. For
each movie we include: (i) the movie description (short, 3-5 sentences), accom-
panying the video clips on the MovieClips YouTube channel; (ii) Wikipedia plot
summaries (medium, 30 sentences); and (iii) IMDB plot synopses (long, 50+ sen-
tences).
Face-tracks and Character IDs: We note that often character identities are the

Sean wants to sulk alone in the snow but is interrupted by Paul.Adam meets his therapist Katherine, who is much younger than he expected.Barbara Jean succumbs to her stress and anxiety on stage.Ronny tries to get his camera back from Zip who is still angry about their previous altercation.Frankie reveals his master plan to steal $10,000 from charity, and how the group of kids will be used to help himINTENTRELATIONSHIPEMOTIONREFERENCE TO PASTREFERENCE TO FUTUREINTENTRELATIONSHIPEMOTIONPAST CONTEXTFUTURE CONTEXTCondensed Movies

7

focal point of any storyline, and many of the descriptions reference key characters. In
a similar manner to [36], we use face images downloaded from search engines to label
detected and tracked faces in our dataset. Our technique involves the creation of a
character embedding bank (CEB) which contains a list of characters (obtained from
cast lists), and a corresponding embedding vector obtained by passing search engine
image results through a deep CNN model pretrained on human faces [46]. Character
IDs are then assigned to face-tracks in the video dataset when the similarity between
the embeddings from the face tracks and the embeddings in the CEB (using cosine
similarity) is above a certain threshold. This pipeline is described in detail in the
appendix, Sec. A.1. We note that this is an automatic method and so does not yield
perfect results, but a random manual inspection shows that it is accurate 96% of the
time. Ultimately, we are able to recognize 8,375 different characters in 25,760 of the
video clips.

3.2 Story Coverage

To quantitatively measure the amount of the story covered by movie clips in our
dataset, we randomly sample 100 movies and manually aligned the movie clips (using
the descriptions as well as the videos) to Wikipedia plot summaries (the median length
of which is 32 sentences). We found that while the clips totalled only 15% of the
full-length movie in time duration, they cover 44% of the full plot sentences, suggesting
that the clips can indeed be described as key scenes. In addition, we find that the movie
clips span a median range of 85.2% of the plot, with the mean midpoint of the span
being 53%. We further show the distribution of clip sampling in Fig. 8 in the appendix,
Sec. A.2 and find that in general there is an almost uniform coverage of the movie. While
we focus on a baseline task of video-text retrieval, we also believe that the longitudidal
nature of our dataset will encourage other tasks in long range movie understanding.

4 Text-to-Video Retrieval

In this section we provide a baseline task for our dataset – the task of text-to-video
retrieval. The goal here is to retrieve the correct ‘key scene’ over all movies in the
dataset, given just the high level description. Henceforth, we use the term ‘video
clip’ to refer to one key scene, and ‘description’ to refer to the high level semantic
text accompanying each video clip. In order to achieve this task, we learn a common
embedding space for each video and the description accompanying it. More formally,
if V is the video and T is the description, we learn embedding functions f and g such
that the similarity s=(cid:104)f(V ),g(T )(cid:105) is high only if T is the correct semantic description
for the video V . Inspired by previous works that achieve state-of-the-art results on
video retrieval tasks [13,38], we encode each video as a combination of different streams
of descriptors. Each descriptor is a semantic representation of the video learnt by
individual experts (that encode concepts such as scenes, faces, actions, objects and
the content of conversational speech from subtitles).

Inspired by [13], we base our network architecture on a mixture of ‘expert’ embeddings
model, wherein a separate model is learnt for each expert, which are then combined in
an end-to-end trainable fashion using weights that depend on the input caption. This

8

M. Bain et al.

allows the model to learn to increase the relative weight of motion descriptors for input
captions concerning human actions, or increase the relative weight of face descriptors
for input captions that require detailed face understanding. We also note, however, that
often the text query not only provides clues as to which expert is more valuable, but
also whether it is useful to pay attention to a previous clip in the movie, by referring
to something that happened previously, eg. ‘Zip is still angry about their previous
altercation’. Hence we introduce a Contextual Boost module (CBM), which allows the
model to learn to increase the relative weight of a past video feature as well. A visual
overview of the retrieval system with the CBM can be seen in Fig. 4. In regular movie
datasets, the space of possible previous clips can be prohibitively large [39], however
this becomes feasible with our Condensed Movies dataset.

Besides doing just cross-movie retrieval, we also adapt our model to perform within-
movie retrieval. We note that characters are integral to a storyline, and hence for the
case of within-movie retrieval, we introduce a character module, which computes a
weighted one-hot vector for the characters present in the description query and another
for each video clip in the dataset. We note that for cross-movie retrieval, the retrieval
task becomes trivial given the knowledge of the characters in each movie, and hence
to make the task more challenging (and force the network to focus on other aspects
of the story), we remove the character module for this case.

Fig. 4: Model architecture: An overview of text-to-video retrieval with our Contextual
Boost module (CBM) that computes a similarity score between a query sentence T and a
target video. CBM receives contextual video features (which are previous clips from the same
movie) to improve the multimodal encoding of the target video clip. The expert features
are extracted using pre-trained models for speech, motion, faces, scenes and objects.

4.1 Model Architecture

Expert Features. Stories in movies are communicated through many modalities
including (but not limited to) speech, body language, facial expressions and actions.
Hence we represent each input video V with K different expert streams (in our case,
K =5 – face, subtitles, objects, motion and scene, but our framework can be extended
to more experts as required).

Each input stream is denoted as Ii, where i=1,...,K. Adopting the approach proposed
by [13], we first aggregate the descriptors of each input stream over time, using a
temporal aggregation module (see Sec. 5 for details), and the resulting time-aggregated
descriptor is embedded using a gated embedding module (for the precise details of the
gated embedding module, please see [13]). We then finally project each embedding to
a common dimension D using a fully connected layer, giving us one expert embedding
EVi for each input stream i. Hence the final output is of dimensions K ×D.

Billy reveals the truth to Louis about the Duke's bet which changed both their lives.Text Query EncoderSimilarity ScoreMulti-modal Video EncoderCBMContextual Video ClipsTarget  Video ClipOutputExpert FeaturesCondensed Movies

9

Text Query Encoder. The query description input is a sequence of BERT word
embeddings [47] for each input sentence. These individual word embedding vectors
are then aggregated into a single vector h(T ) representing the entire sentence using
a NetVLAD [48] aggregation module. This vector h(T ), is used to predict the mixture
weights (described in the next section). We project h(T ) to the same dimensions as
the video expert features using the same gated embedding module followed by a fully
connected layer as for the video experts (described above), once for each input source i,
giving us expert embeddings ETi. Hence the final output is also of dimensions K ×D.

Contextual Boost Module. In both [13] and [38], the resulting expert embed-
dings EVi are then weighted using normalised weights wi(T ) estimated from the text
description T . The final similarity score s is obtained by a weighted combination of
the similarity scores si(ETi,EVi) between the embeddings ETi of the query sentence
T and the expert embeddings EVi (obtained from the input video descriptors Ii). More
formally, this is calculated as:

s(T,V )=

K
(cid:88)

wi(T )si(ETi,EVi),

i=1

where

wi(T )=

eh(T )(cid:124)ai
j=1eh(T )(cid:124)aj

(cid:80)K

(1)

where si is the scalar product, h(T ) is the aggregated text query representation described
above and ai, i=1,..,.K are learnt parameters used to obtained the mixture weights.
In this work, however, we extend this formulation in order to incorporate past context
into the retrieval model. We would like the model to be able to predict weights for
combining experts from previous clips – note we treat each expert separately in this
formulation. For example, the model might want to heavily weight the subtitles from
a past clip, but down-weight the scene representation which is not informative for a
particular query. More formally, given the total number of clips we are encoding to
be N, we modify the equation above as:

s(T,V )=

N
(cid:88)

K
(cid:88)

wi,n(T )si,n(ETi,EVi,n),

n=1

i=1

wi,n(T )=

(cid:80)N

eh(T )(cid:124)ai,n
(cid:80)K

j=1eh(T )(cid:124)aj,m

.

(2)

(3)

m=1
Hence instead of learning K scalar weights ai, i=1,...,K as done in [13] and [38], we
learn K ×N scalar weights ai,n, i=1,...,K, n=1,...,N to allow combination of experts
from additional clips.

Dealing with missing streams. We note that these experts might be missing for cer-
tain videos, e.g. subtitles are not available for all videos and some videos do not have any
detected faces. When expert features are missing, we zero-pad the missing experts and
compute the similarity score. This is the standard procedure followed by existing retrieval
methods using Mixture of Embedding Experts models [13,38]. The similarity score is
calculated only from the available experts by re-normalising the mixture weights to sum
to one, allowing backpropagation of gradients only to the expert branches that had an
input feature. We apply this same principle when dealing with missing video clips in the
past, for example if we are training our model with N =1 past clips, for a video clip which
is right at the start of the movie (has no past), we treat all the experts from the previous
clip as missing so that the weights are normalised to focus only on the current clip.

10

M. Bain et al.

Character Module. The character module computes the similarity between a vector
representation of the character IDs mentioned in the query y and a vector representation
of the face identities recognised in the clip x. The vector representations are computed
as follows: For the query, we search for actor names in the text from the cast list
(supplied by the dataset) and create a one-hot vector y the same length as the cast list,
where yi =1 if actor i is identified in any face track in the video and yi =0 otherwise.
For the face identities acquired in the face recognition pipeline (described earlier), we
compare the following three methods: first, we encode a one-hot vector x in a manner
similar to the query character encoding.

While this can match the presence and absence of characters, it doesn’t allow any

weighting of characters based on their importance in a clip.

Hence inspired by [49], we also propose a second method (“track-frequency nor-
malised”), where xi is the number of face tracks for identity i. Lastly, in “track length
normalised”, our vector encodes the total amount of time a character appears in a
clip i.e. xi is the sum of all track lengths for actor i, divided by the total sum of all
track lengths in the clip. The performances of the three approaches are displayed and
discussed in Table 5 and Section 5 respectively. The character similarity score sC =(cid:104)y,x(cid:105)
is then modulated by its own scalar mixture weight wC(T ) predicted from h(T ) (as
is done for the other experts in the model). This similarity score is then added to the
similarity score obtained from the other experts to obtain the final similarity score,
i.e. s(T,V )=(cid:80)K
Training Loss. As is commonly done for video-text retrieval tasks, we minimise the
Bidirectional Max-margin Ranking Loss [50].

i=1wi(T )si(ETi,EVi)+wC(T )sC(T,V ).

5 Experiments

5.1 Experimental Set-up

We train our model for the task of cross-movie and within-movie retrieval. The dataset
is split into disjoint training, validation and test sets by movie, so that there are no
overlapping movies between the sets. The dataset splits can be seen in Table 3. We report
our results on the test set using standard retrieval metrics including median rank (lower
is better), mean rank (lower is better) and R@K (recall at rank K—higher is better).
Cross-movie Retrieval: For the case of cross-movie retrieval, the metrics are reported
over the entire test set of videos, i.e. given a text query, there is a ‘gallery’ set of 6,581
possible matching videos (Table 3). We report R@1, R@5, R@10, mean and median
rank.
Within-movie Retrieval: In order to evaluate the task of within-movie retrieval, we
remove all movies that contain less than 5 video clips from the dataset. For each query
text, the possible gallery set consists only of the videos in the same movie as the query.
In this setting the retrieval metrics are calculated separately for each movie and then
averaged over all movies. We report R@1, mean and median rank.

5.2 Baselines

The E2EWS (End-to-end Weakly Supervised) is a cross-modal retrieval model trained
by [51] using weak supervision from a large-scale corpus of (100 million) instructional

Condensed Movies

11

Table 3: Training splits for cross-movie retrieval (left) and within-movie retrieval (right). For
within-movie retrieval, we restrict the dataset to movies which have at least 5 video clips in total.

Train

Cross-Movie
Val Test Total Train

Within-Movie

Val Test Total

#Movies
#Video clips

2,551
24,047

358
3,348

696
6,581

3,605
33,976

2,469
23,963

341
3,315

671
6,581

3,481
33,859

videos (using speech content as the supervisory signal). We use the video and text
encoders without any form of fine-tuning on Condensed Movies, to demonstrate the
widely different domain of our dataset.
The MoEE (Mixture of Embedded Experts) model proposed by [13] comprises a
multi-modal video model in combination with a system of context gates that learn
to fuse together different pretrained experts.
The CE model [38] similarly learns a cross-modal embedding by fusing together a collec-
tion of pretrained experts to form a video encoder, albeit with pairwise relation network
sub-architectures. It represents the state-of-the-art on several retrieval benchmarks.
Context Boosting Module: Finally, we report results with the addition of our
Context Boosting module to both MoEE and CE. We use the fact that the video clips
in our dataset are ordered by the time they appear in the movie, and encode previous
and future ‘key scenes’ in the movie along with every video clip using the CBM. An
ablation on the number of clips encoded for context can be found in the supplementary
material.
We finally show the results of an ablation study demonstrating the importance of
different experts for this task on the task of cross-movie retrieval.

In the next sections, we first describe the implementation details of our models and

then discuss quantitative and qualitative results.

5.3 Implementation Details

Expert Features: In order to capture the rich content of a video, we draw on existing
powerful representations for a number of different semantic tasks. These are first
extracted at a frame-level, then aggregated by taking the mean to produce a single
feature vector per modality per video.
RGB object frame-level embeddings of the visual data are generated with an SENet-
154 model [52] pretrained on ImageNet for the task of image classification. Frames are
extracted at 25 fps, where each frame is resized to 224×224 pixels. Features collected
have a dimensionality of 2048.
Motion embeddings are generated using the I3D inception model [53] trained on
Kinetics [15], following the procedure described by [53].
Face embeddings for each face track are extracted in three stages: (1) Each frame is
passed through a dual shot face detector [54] (trained on the Wider Face dataset [55])
to extract bounding boxes. (2) Each box is then passed through an SENet50 [56] trained
on the VGGFace2 dataset [46] for the task of face verification, to extract a facial feature
embedding, which is L2 normalised. (3) A simple tracker is used to connect the bounding
boxes temporally within shots into face tracks. Finally the embeddings for each bounding
box within a track are average pooled into a single embedding per face track, which is
again L2 normalised. The tracker uses a weighted combination of intersection over union

12

M. Bain et al.

and feature similarity (cosine similarity) to link bounding boxes in consecutive frames.
Subtitles are encoded using BERT embeddings [47] averaged across all words.
Scene features of 2208 dimensions are encoded using a DenseNet161 model [57]
pretrained on the Places365 dataset [58], applied to 224×224 pixel centre crops of
frames extracted at 1fps.
Descriptions are encoded using BERT embeddings, providing contextual word-
level features of dimensions W ×1024 where W is the number of tokens. These are
concatenated and fed to a NetVLAD layer to produce a feature vector of length of
1024 times the number of NetVLAD clusters for variable length word tokens.
Training details and hyperparameters: All baselines and CBM are implemented
with PyTorch [59]. Optimization is performed with Adam [60], using a learning rate
of 0.001, and a batch size of 32. The margin hyperparameter m for the bidirectional
ranking loss is set to a value of 0.121, the common projection dimension D to 512, and
the description NetVLAD clusters to 10. For CBM, we select the number of past and
future context videos to be N=3, ablations for hyperparameters and using different
amounts of context are given in the supplementary material. Training is stopped when
the validation loss stops decreasing.

Table 4: Cross-movie text-video retrieval results on the CMD test set of 6,581 video clips,
with varying levels of context. Random weights refers to the MoEE model architecture with
random initialization. We report Recall@k (higher is better), Median rank and Mean rank
(lower is better).

Method

Recall@1 Recall@5 Recall@10 Median Rank Mean Rank

Random weights
E2EWS [51]
CE [38]
MoEE [13]
CE + CBM (ours)
MoEE + CBM (ours)

0.0
0.7
2.3
4.7
3.6
5.6

0.1
2.2
7.4
14.9
12.0
17.6

0.2
3.7
11.8
22.1
18.2
26.1

3209
1130
190
65
103
50

3243.5
1705.5
570.0
285.3
474.6
243.9

Table 5: Within-Movie Retrieval results on the CMD test set. All movies with less than 5
video clips are removed. Metrics are computed individually for each movie and then averaged
(m-MdR and m-MnR refers to the mean of the median and mean rank obtained for each
movie respectively). R@1 denotes recall@1. We show the results of 3 different variations of
embeddings obtained from the character module.

Method

m-R@1 m-MdR m-MnR

Random weights
MoEE
MoEE + Character Module [one-hot]
MoEE + Character Module [track-len norm]
MoEE + Character Module [track-freq norm]

11.1
38.9
45.5
46.2
47.2

5.32
2.20
1.91
1.88
1.85

5.32
2.82
2.60
2.53
2.49

5.4 Results

Results for cross-movie retrieval can be seen in Table 4. E2EWS performs poorly, illus-
trating the domain gap between CMD and generic YouTube videos from HowTo100M.

Condensed Movies

13

Table 6: Expert ablations. The value of different experts in combination with a baseline
for text-video retrieval (left) and (right) their cumulative effect (here Prev. denotes the experts
used in the previous row). R@k: recall@k, MedR: median rank, MeanR: mean rank

Experts

R@1 R@5 R@10 MedR MeanR Experts

R@1 R@5 R@10 MedR MeanR

5.9
0.8 3.2
Scene
3.7 12.7 19.7
Scene+Face
Scene+Obj
8.0
1.0 4.6
Scene+Action 1.9 6.4 10.5
Scene+Speech 2.3 8.3 12.4

329
100
237
193
165

5.9
0.8 3.2
776.3 Scene
3.7 12.7 19.7
443.1 Prev.+Face
607.8 Prev.+ Obj
3.9 13.1 20.5
575.0 Prev.+ Action 4.0 14.0 20.4
5.6 17.6 26.1
534.7 Prev.+Speech

329
100
79
78
50

776
443.1
245.5
233.3
243.9

Fig. 5: Qualitative results of the MoEE+CBM model for cross-movie retrieval.
On the left, we provide the input query, and on the right, we show the top 4 video clips
retrieved by our model on the CMD test set. A single frame for each video clip is shown. The
matching clip is highlighted with a green border, while the rest are highlighted in red (best
viewed in colour). Note how our model is able to retrieve semantic matches for situations (row
1: male/female on a date), high level abstract concepts (row 2: the words ‘stand’ and ‘truth’
are mentioned in the caption and the retrieved samples show a courtroom, men delivering
speeches and a policeman’s office) and also notions of violence and objects (row 3: scythe).

Both the CE and MoEE baselines perform much better than random, demonstrating
that story-based retrieval is achievable on this dataset. We show that the Contextual
Boost module can be effectively used in conjunction with existing video retrieval
architectures, improving performance for both CE and MoEE, with the latter being the
best performing model. Results for within-movie retrieval can be seen in Table 5. We
show that adding in the character module provides a significant boost (almost a 10%
increase in Recall@1 compared to the MoEE without the character module), with the
best results obtained from normalizing the character embeddings by the track frequency.
The value of different experts is assessed in Table 6. Since experts such as subtitles and
face are missing for many video clips, we show the performance of individual experts
combined with the ‘scene’ expert features, the expert with the lowest performance that
is consistently available for all clips (as done by [38]). In Table 6, right, we show the
cumulative effect of adding in the different experts. The highest boosts are obtained
from the face features and the speech features, as expected, since we hypothesize that

Out on a date with Michael, Lelaina gets uncomfortable when he gives her a compliment and asks about her friends.Bill puts Bobby on the stand, and uses a hockey metaphor to draw out the truth.Chucky chases Tyler into a haunted house ride at a nearby carnival. Right as he captures Tyler, he gets half his face cut off by an automated scythe.14

M. Bain et al.

these are crucial for following human-centric storylines. We show qualitative results
for our best cross-movie retrieval model (MoEE + CBM) in Fig. 5.

6 Plot Alignment

A unique aspect of the Condensed Movies Dataset is the story-level captions accompa-
nying the ordered key scenes in the movie. Unlike existing datasets [2] that contain low
level visual descriptions of the visual content, our semantic captions capture key plot
elements. To illustrate the new kinds of capabilities afforded by this aspect, we align the
video descriptions to Wikipedia plot summary sentences using Jumping Dynamic Time
Warping [61] of BERT sentence embeddings. This alignment allows us to place each
video clip in the global context of the larger plot of the movie. A qualitative example
is shown in Fig. 6. Future work will incorporate this global context from movie plots
to further improve retrieval performance.

Fig. 6: A sample Wikipedia movie plot summary (left) aligned with an ordered sample of
clips and their descriptions (right). The alignment was achieved using Jumping Dynamic
Time Warping [61] of sentence-level BERT embeddings, note how the alignment is able to
skip a number of peripheral plot sentences.

7 Conclusion

In this work, we introduce a new and challenging Condensed Movies Dataset (CMD), con-
taining captioned video clips following succinct and clear storylines in movies. Our dataset
consists of long video clips with high level semantic captions, annotated face-tracks, and
other movie metadata, and is freely available to the research community. We investigate
the task of story-based text retrieval of these clips, and show that modelling past and
previous context improves performance. Beside improving retrieval, developing richer
models to model longer term temporal context will also allow us to follow the evolution of
relationships [34] and higher level semantics in movies, exciting avenues for future work.

Acknowledgements

This work is supported by a Google PhD Fellowship, an EPSRC DTA Studentship, and
the EPSRC programme grant Seebibyte EP/M013774/1. We are grateful to Samuel
Albanie for his help with feature extraction.

When swarms of seagulls attack a children's birthday party, Melanie and the Brenners usher the children inside the house to safety. Melanie purchases a pair of lovebirds and drives to Mitch's weekend address in Bodega Bay to deliver them. Wanting to surprise him, she rents a motorboat so she can approach the Brenner house from the bay instead of the road. She sneaks the birds inside the house and heads back across the bay. Mitch discovers the birds, spots Melanie's boat during her retreat, and drives around the bay to meet her. Melanie is attacked and injured by a gull near shore on the town side. Mitch treats her abrasion and invites her to dinner; she hesitantly agrees.  Melanie gets to know Mitch, his domineering mother Lydia (Jessica Tandy), and his younger sister Cathy (Veronica Cartwright). She also befriends local schoolteacher Annie Hayworth (Suzanne Pleshette), Mitch's ex-lover. While spending the night at Annie's house, she and Annie are startled by a loud thud: a gull kills itself by ﬂying into the front door. At Cathy's birthday party the next day, the guests are attacked by gulls. The following evening, sparrows invade the Brenner home through the chimney.  The next morning, Lydia, a widow who still maintains the family farmstead, visits a neighboring farmer to discuss the unusual behavior of her chickens. She ﬁnds the farmer's eyeless corpse, pecked lifeless by birds, and ﬂees in terror. Once home, she ﬁnds her...Melanie  is ambushed by a seagull and gets a gash on her head. Melanie considers leaving, but her plans are cut short when swarms of birds ﬂy down the chimney and drive the Brenners out of their house.Plot Synopsis                           ClipsCondensed Movies

15

References

1. Tapaswi, M., Bauml, M., Stiefelhagen, R.: Storygraphs: visualizing character interactions
as a timeline. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition. (2014) 827–834

2. Rohrbach, A., Torabi, A., Rohrbach, M., Tandon, N., Pal, C., Larochelle, H., Courville, A.,
Schiele, B.: Movie description. International Journal of Computer Vision 123 (2017) 94–120
3. Xiong, Y., Huang, Q., Guo, L., Zhou, H., Zhou, B., Lin, D.: A Graph-Based Framework
to Bridge Movies and Synopses. In: The IEEE International Conference on Computer
Vision (ICCV). (2019)

4. Vicol, P., Tapaswi, M., Castrejon, L., Fidler, S.: MovieGraphs: Towards Understanding
Human-Centric Situations from Videos. In: IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition (CVPR). (2018)

5. Huang, Q., Xiong, Y., Rao, A., Wang, J., Lin, D.: MovieNet: A Holistic Dataset for
Movie Understanding. In: The European Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV). (2020)
6. Miech, A., Zhukov, D., Alayrac, J.B., Tapaswi, M., Laptev, I., Sivic, J.: HowTo100M:
Learning a Text-Video Embedding by Watching Hundred Million Narrated Video Clips.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.03327 (2019)

7. Tang, Y., Ding, D., Rao, Y., Zheng, Y., Zhang, D., Zhao, L., Lu, J., Zhou, J.: Coin:
A large-scale dataset for comprehensive instructional video analysis. In: Proceedings
of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. (2019) 1207–1216
8. Zhou, L., Xu, C., Corso, J.J.: Towards automatic learning of procedures from web
instructional videos. In: Thirty-Second AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence. (2018)
9. Ignat, O., Burdick, L., Deng, J., Mihalcea, R.: Identifying Visible Actions in Lifestyle

Vlogs. arXiv preprint arXiv:1906.04236 (2019)

10. Fouhey, D.F., Kuo, W.c., Efros, A.A., Malik, J.: From lifestyle vlogs to everyday
interactions. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition. (2018) 4991–5000

11. Xu, J., Mei, T., Yao, T., Rui, Y.: {MSR-VTT:} A large video description dataset for
bridging video and language. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition. (2016) 5288–5296

12. Hendricks, L.A., Wang, O., Shechtman, E., Sivic, J., Darrell, T., Russell, B.: Localizing
moments in video with natural language. In: Proceedings of the IEEE international
conference on computer vision. (2017) 5803–5812

13. Miech, A., Laptev, I., Sivic, J.: {L}earning a{T}ext-{V}ideo{E}mbedding from

{I}mcomplete and{H}eterogeneous{D}ata. In: arXiv. (2018)

14. Tapaswi, M., Zhu, Y., Stiefelhagen, R., Torralba, A., Urtasun, R., Fidler, S.: MovieQA:
Understanding Stories in Movies through Question-Answering. In: IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). (2016)

15. Kay, W., Carreira, J., Simonyan, K., Zhang, B., Hillier, C., Vijayanarasimhan, S., Viola,
F., Green, T., Back, T., Natsev, P., Suleyman, M., Zisserman, A.: The{Kinetics} Human
Action Video Dataset. CoRR abs/1705.06950 (2017)

16. Gu, C., Sun, C., Ross, D.A., Vondrick, C., Pantofaru, C., Li, Y., Vijayanarasimhan, S.,
Toderici, G., Ricco, S., Sukthankar, R., Schmid, C., Malik, J.: {AVA}: A video dataset of
spatio-temporally localized atomic visual actions. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. (2018) 6047–6056

17. Monfort, M., Andonian, A., Zhou, B., Ramakrishnan, K., Bargal, S.A., Yan, Y., Brown,
L., Fan, Q., Gutfreund, D., Vondrick, C., Others: Moments in time dataset: one million
videos for event understanding. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine
intelligence (2019)

18. Sener, O., Zamir, A.R., Savarese, S., Saxena, A.: Unsupervised semantic parsing of video
collections. In: Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision.
(2015) 4480–4488

16

M. Bain et al.

19. Alayrac, J.B., Bojanowski, P., Agrawal, N., Sivic, J., Laptev, I., Lacoste-Julien, S.:
Unsupervised learning from narrated instruction videos. In: Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. (2016) 4575–4583

20. Sun, C., Myers, A., Vondrick, C., Murphy, K., Schmid, C.: Videobert: A joint model
for video and language representation learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.01766 (2019)
21. Everingham, M., Sivic, J., Zisserman, A.: “Hello! My name is... Buffy” – automatic

naming of characters in TV video. In: Proc. BMVC. (2006)

22. Naim, I., Al Mamun, A., Song, Y.C., Luo, J., Kautz, H., Gildea, D.: Aligning movies
with scripts by exploiting temporal ordering constraints. In: 2016 23rd International
Conference on Pattern Recognition (ICPR), IEEE (2016) 1786–1791

23. Cour, T., Sapp, B., Jordan, C., Taskar, B.: Learning from ambiguously labeled images. In:
2009 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, IEEE (2009) 919–926
24. Sivic, J., Everingham, M., Zisserman, A.: “Who are you?” – learning person specific

classifiers from video. In: Proc. CVPR. (2009)

25. Tapaswi, M., B¨auml, M., Stiefelhagen, R.: “Knock! Knock! Who is it?” probabilistic
person identification in TV-series. In: 2012 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, IEEE (2012) 2658–2665

26. Huang, Q., Yang, L., Huang, H., Wu, T., Lin, D.: Caption-Supervised Face Recognition:
Training a State-of-the-Art Face Model without Manual Annotation. In: The European
Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV). (2020)

27. Bojanowski, P., Bach, F., Laptev, I., Ponce, J., Schmid, C., Sivic, J.: Finding actors
and actions in movies. In: Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer
vision. (2013) 2280–2287

28. Duchenne, O., Laptev, I., Sivic, J., Bach, F., Ponce, J.: Automatic annotation of human
actions in video. In: 2009 IEEE 12th International Conference on Computer Vision, IEEE
(2009) 1491–1498

29. Laptev, I., Marsza(cid:32)lek, M., Schmid, C., Rozenfeld, B.: Learning realistic human actions

from movies. (2008)

30. Marsza(cid:32)lek, M., Laptev, I., Schmid, C.: Actions in context. In: CVPR 2009-IEEE Conference
on Computer Vision & Pattern Recognition, IEEE Computer Society (2009) 2929–2936
31. Nagrani, A., Sun, C., Ross, D., Sukthankar, R., Schmid, C., Zisserman, A.: Speech2Action:
Cross-Modal Supervision for Action Recognition. In: The IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). (2020)

32. Ercolessi, P., Bredin, H., S´enac, C.: StoViz: story visualization of TV series.

In:
Proceedings of the 20th ACM international conference on Multimedia. (2012) 1329–1330
33. Rao, A., Xu, L., Xiong, Y., Xu, G., Huang, Q., Zhou, B., Lin, D.: A Local-to-Global
Approach to Multi-modal Movie Scene Segmentation. In: Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. (2020) 10146–10155

34. Kukleva, A., Tapaswi, M., Laptev, I.: Learning Interactions and Relationships between
Movie Characters. In: IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR’20). (2020)

35. Jasani, B., Girdhar, R., Ramanan, D.: Are we asking the right questions in{MovieQA?}.

In: ICCVW. (2019)

36. Nagrani, A., Zisserman, A.: From benedict cumberbatch to sherlock holmes: Character

identification in tv series without a script. In: Proc. BMVC. (2017)

37. Lei, J., Yu, L., Berg, T.L., Bansal, M.: TVQA+: Spatio-Temporal Grounding for Video

Question Answering. In: Tech Report, arXiv. (2019)

38. Liu, Y., Albanie, S., Nagrani, A., Zisserman, A.: Use what you have: Video retrieval

using representations from collaborative experts. In: Proc. BMVC. (2019)

39. Tapaswi, M., B¨auml, M., Stiefelhagen, R.: Aligning plot synopses to videos for story-based
retrieval. International Journal of Multimedia Information Retrieval 4 (2015) 3–16
40. Krishna, R., Hata, K., Ren, F., Fei-Fei, L., Carlos Niebles, J.: Dense-captioning events
in videos. In: Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on computer vision. (2017)
706–715

Condensed Movies

17

41. Wu, C.Y., Feichtenhofer, C., Fan, H., He, K., Krahenbuhl, P., Girshick, R.: Long-Term
Feature Banks for Detailed Video Understanding. In: The IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). (2019)

42. McCarthy, P.M., Jarvis, S.: MTLD, vocd-D, and HD-D: A validation study of sophisticated
approaches to lexical diversity assessment. Behavior Research Methods 42 (2010) 381–392
43. Caba Heilbron, F., Escorcia, V., Ghanem, B., Carlos Niebles, J.: ActivityNet: A large-scale
In: Proceedings of the IEEE

video benchmark for human activity understanding.
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. (2015) 961–970

44. Nagrani, A., Chung, J.S., Xie, W., Zisserman, A.: Voxceleb: Large-scale speaker

verification in the wild. Computer Speech and Language (2019)

45. Rohrbach, A., Torabi, A., Rohrbach, M., Tandon, N., Pal, C., Larochelle, H., Courville,
A., Schiele, B.: Movie Description. International Journal of Computer Vision (2017)
46. Cao, Q., Shen, L., Xie, W., Parkhi, O.M., Zisserman, A.: VGGFace2: A dataset for recognis-
ing faces across pose and age. In: Proc. Int. Conf. Autom. Face and Gesture Recog. (2018)
47. Devlin, J., Chang, M.W., Lee, K., Toutanova, K.: Bert: Pre-training of deep bidirectional
transformers for language understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805 (2018)
48. Arandjelovic, R., Gronat, P., Torii, A., Pajdla, T., Sivic, J.: NetVLAD: CNN architecture
for weakly supervised place recognition. In: Proceedings of the IEEE conference on
computer vision and pattern recognition. (2016) 5297–5307

49. Tapaswi, M., B¨auml, M., Stiefelhagen, R.: Book2Movie: Aligning Video scenes with Book
chapters. In: IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR).
(2015)

50. Socher, R., Karpathy, A., Le, Q.V., Manning, C.D., Ng, A.Y.: Grounded compositional
semantics for finding and describing images with sentences. Transactions of the Association
for Computational Linguistics 2 (2014) 207–218

51. Miech, A., Alayrac, J.B., Smaira, L., Laptev, I., Sivic, J., Zisserman, A.: End-to-End
Learning of Visual Representations From Uncurated Instructional Videos.
In: The
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). (2020)
52. Hu, J., Shen, L., Albanie, S., Sun, G., Wu, E.: Squeeze-and-Excitation Networks. IEEE

transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence (2019)

53. Carreira, J., Zisserman, A.: Quo vadis, action recognition? a new model and the{Kinetics}
In: proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern

dataset.
Recognition. (2017) 6299–6308

54. Li, J., Wang, Y., Wang, C., Tai, Y., Qian, J., Yang, J., Wang, C., Li, J., Huang, F.:
DSFD: dual shot face detector. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition. (2019) 5060–5069

55. Yang, S., Luo, P., Loy, C.C., Tang, X.: WIDER FACE: A Face Detection Benchmark.
In: IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). (2016)
56. Hu, J., Shen, L., Sun, G.: Squeeze-and-excitation networks. In: Proc. CVPR. (2018)
57. Iandola, F., Moskewicz, M., Karayev, S., Girshick, R., Darrell, T., Keutzer, K.: Densenet:
Implementing efficient convnet descriptor pyramids. arXiv preprint arXiv:1404.1869 (2014)
58. Zhou, B., Lapedriza, A., Khosla, A., Oliva, A., Torralba, A.: Places: A 10 million image
database for scene recognition. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine
intelligence 40 (2017) 1452–1464

59. Paszke, A., Gross, S., Chintala, S., Chanan, G., Yang, E., DeVito, Z., Lin, Z., Desmaison,

A., Antiga, L., Lerer, A.: Automatic differentiation in pytorch. (2017)

60. Kingma, D.P., Ba, J.: Adam: A Method for Stochastic Optimization. CoRR

abs/1412.6980 (2014)

61. Feng, L., Zhao, X., Liu, Y., Yao, Y., Jin, B.: A similarity measure of Jumping Dynamic
In: 2010 Seventh International Conference on Fuzzy Systems and

Time Warping.
Knowledge Discovery. Volume 4. (2010) 1677–1681

62. Jain, A.K., Dubes, R.C.: Algorithms for clustering data. Prentice-Hall, Inc. (1988)

18

M. Bain et al.

63. Bojanowski, P., Lajugie, R., Grave, E., Bach, F., Laptev, I., Ponce, J., Schmid, C.:
In: Proceedings of the IEEE

Weakly-Supervised Alignment of Video With Text.
International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV). (2015)

64. Sakoe, H., Chiba, S.: Dynamic programming algorithm optimization for spoken word recog-
nition. IEEE Transactions on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing 26 (1978) 159–165

A Dataset

A.1 Character Identity Pipeline

We describe in detail the process of building the character embedding bank mentioned
in Sec. 3.1 of the main paper, and state some figures on the number of annotations
obtained. We follow a three step scalable pipeline to assign character IDs to each of the
face-tracks where possible, crucially without any human annotation. First, we use the
cast lists obtained for each of the featured movies from IMDb to get a total list of 28,379
actor names. Note we use the names of the actors and not characters (the cast lists
provide us with the mapping between the two). 200 images are then downloaded from
image search engines for each of these names. Faces are detected and face-embeddings
extracted for each of the faces in the downloaded images. Second, we automatically
remove embeddings corresponding to false positives from each set of downloaded images.
We achieve this by clustering each of the face-embeddings in the downloaded images into
identity clusters (we use agglomerative clustering [62] with a cosine distance threshold of
0.762 - embeddings that have a lower similarity than this threshold are not merged into
the same cluster). We make the assumption that the largest cluster of face-embeddings
corresponds to the actor ID that was searched for. If the largest cluster is smaller than a
certain threshold (the value 30 is used2) then we remove the actor ID with the conclusion
that too few images were found online (commonly the case for relatively unknown
cast/crew members). Finally for the remaining actor IDs, the embeddings in the largest
cluster are average pooled and L2 normalised into a single embedding. This process
leaves us with 13,671 cast members in the character embedding bank. Facetracks are then
annotated using the character embedding bank by assigning a character ID when the
cosine similarity score between a facetrack embedding and character embedding is above
a certain threshold (we use 0.8 as a conservative threshold to prioritize high precision).
The most frequent actors in terms of screen-time automatically labelled by our

method can be found in Fig. 7

A.2 Aligning Plots to Captions

Aligning video to text has been investigated by a long history of work [63], in particular
plot summaries/synopses with films or TV shows[3]. These works assume complete
and ordered data streams of both video and text, enabling use of the Dynamic Time
Warping (DTW) algorithm introduced in [64], significantly constraining the problem.
The text data for CMD however is Wikipedia plot summaries which do not contain
descriptions of every scene in the movie, but rather succinct sentences describing the
important events in the film. Further, the video in our case is not the full-length movie

2 value found empirically using cross-validation on a subset of manually annotated samples

Condensed Movies

19

Fig. 7: Screen Time of the top 15 most frequent actors recognised by our character
identity pipeline, computed as the total duration of face-tracks.

but instead key scenes sparsely sampled from the full video. This means that many
of the assumptions of DTW do not hold true.

Instead, we assume that each video clip V should be matched with one plot synopsis
sentence S. Since for our data |V |<|S|, some plot sentences are not matched with any
video clip, but every video clip does have a matching sentence. This is setting is handled
by Jumping Dynamic Time Warping (JDTW) [61]. We randomly sample 100 movies
and manually align the movie clips from CMD to their Wikipedia plot summaries.

B Experiments

B.1 Character Module

The character module, described in Section 4 of the main paper, uses automatically
annotated facetracks in the video and actor names in the text to produce a single
similarity score. An overview of the character module can be found in Fig. 9.

B.2 Context Ablations

We provide ablations for the best peforming model MoEE + Contextual Boost Module
(CBM) using a variable number of context videos from the past and future, found in
Table 7. The results show CBM’s general robustness to the amount of context. Past
context clips generally outperform those from the future, which is expected due to the
causal nature of the story.

Nicolas CageBen StillerAdam SandlerRobin WilliamsTom CruiseDenzel WashingtonRobert De NiroWill FerrellMatt DamonSteve MartinPaul RuddWill SmithMeryl StreepSeth RogenJulia RobertsActor010002000300040005000600070008000Screen Time (secs.)20

M. Bain et al.

Fig. 8: Plot Coverage: Cumulative distribution of aligned video clips and plot
synopsis sentences for 100 randomly sampled movies. Normalised position
index indicates their actual index normalised by the total number of video
clips / plot synopsis sentences for the movie.

Fig. 9: Visual Representation of our Character Module. We show how our
character module matches actor names in the caption (left) to actors identified from
the video clip (right) using our character embeddings banks. In this example, the
video identities are represented by a vector x, where each element xi is the number
of facetracks for identity i, and the caption identities are represented by a binary vector
y, where yi is 1 if identity i is present in the caption and 0 otherwise.

0204 2 0000101 1 000CosinesimilarityCharacter Similarity ScoreWhen Detective Austin (Mark Harmon) and Colonel Caldwell (Sean Connery) have their coffee break interrupted by an obnoxious man looking for a ﬁght (Rick Zumwalt), Colonel Caldwell helpfully ...Condensed Movies

21

Table 7: Context ablations of the best performing model (MoEE + CBM) on the CMD dataset.
Where Px Fy denotes x past clips and y future clips used as input to the CBM per target video.

Text =⇒ Video

Context R@1 R@5 R@10 MdR MnR

P1
P2
P3
F1
F2
F3
P1F1
P3F3

5.4 17.6 25.7
5.0 16.1 24.5
5.6 17.1 25.7
4.5 15.3 23.1
5.1 17.0 25.5
5.4 17.1 25.9
5.0 16.4 25.3
5.6 17.6 26.1

51 260.7
53 250.3
50 253.8
58 258.7
49 248.1
50 247.0
51
249.
50 243.9

