2
2
0
2

g
u
A
2

]

V
C
.
s
c
[

3
v
4
7
8
2
0
.
4
0
2
2
:
v
i
X
r
a

EclipSE: Efficient Long-range Video
Retrieval using Sight and Sound

Yan-Bo Lin, Jie Lei, Mohit Bansal, and Gedas Bertasius

Department of Computer Science
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
{yblin,jielei,mbansal,gedas}@cs.unc.edu

Abstract. We introduce an audiovisual method for long-range text-to-
video retrieval. Unlike previous approaches designed for short video re-
trieval (e.g., 5-15 seconds in duration), our approach aims to retrieve
minute-long videos that capture complex human actions. One challenge
of standard video-only approaches is the large computational cost asso-
ciated with processing hundreds of densely extracted frames from such
long videos. To address this issue, we propose to replace parts of the
video with compact audio cues that succinctly summarize dynamic audio
events and are cheap to process. Our method, named EclipSE (Efficient
CLIP with Sound Encoding), adapts the popular CLIP model to an au-
diovisual video setting, by adding a unified audiovisual transformer block
that captures complementary cues from the video and audio streams. In
addition to being 2.92× faster and 2.34× memory-efficient than long-
range video-only approaches, our method also achieves better text-to-
video retrieval accuracy on several diverse long-range video datasets such
as ActivityNet, QVHighlights, YouCook2, DiDeMo, and Charades. Our
code is available at https://github.com/GenjiB/ECLIPSE

1

Introduction

Fueled by the growing availability of video data, the last few years have wit-
nessed remarkable progress in text-to-video retrieval [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8]. However,
modern video retrieval systems are predominantly designed for very short videos
(e.g., 5-15 seconds in length). In contrast, the majority of real-world videos often
capture complex human actions, which may last several minutes or even hours.
For example, consider yourself performing a complex activity of making Japanese
Souffle Pancakes, which may take a couple of hours. In a scenario when you for-
get some of the steps in the recipe, it would be helpful to retrieve a relevant
several-minute-long video segment demonstrating how to perform those steps.
However, the traditional short-range video retrieval models would struggle with
this task due to their inability to analyze longer videos. Combining the strengths
of audio and video modalities, we aim to address this limitation by proposing an
efficient audiovisual text-to-video retrieval system focused on long-range videos.

 
 
 
 
 
 
2

Lin et al.

Fig. 1. Comparison of different high-level frameworks for long-range text-to-video re-
trieval. Most traditional text-to-video retrieval methods (Leftmost Column) are de-
signed for short videos (e.g., 5-15 seconds in duration). Adapting these approaches
to several-minute long videos by stacking more input frames (Middle Column) is
impractical due to excessive computational cost. Instead, our proposed framework op-
erates on sparsely sampled video frames and dense audio cues, which are cheaper to
process (Rightmost Column). In addition to being more efficient, our framework also
achieves higher text-to-video retrieval accuracy than standard video-only approaches.

Among prior vision-and-language meth-
ods [2,1,9,10,11,12,13,14], CLIP [15] stands
out as one of the most widely adopted
models. Several recent approaches ex-
tended CLIP to video [16] by indepen-
dently processing individual video frames
and then averaging their predictions
across time. However, these approaches
in the long-range
are often impractical
video setting because of the large com-
putational cost required to process hun-
dreds of densely extracted video frames
(See Figure 2). Furthermore, while video
modality is rich in the information it
stores, it also has high informational re-
dundancy (i.e., the video content often
changes little in neighboring frames). In contrast, audio can compactly capture
information related to human actions [17,18], objects [19,20,21], scenes [22,23]
and other complex events [24] while also being cheaper to process [25] than the
raw video. For instance, consider a video of a person frying the eggs in a pan.
In this example, most of the relevant visual information (e.g., kitchen stove,
pan, eggs, etc.) can be captured in just a few video frames, while the temporal
dynamics in the scene can be succinctly encoded in the audio stream (e.g., the
sounds of the eggs sizzling in a pan, etc.).

Fig. 2. Our audiovisual
framework
scales to long videos more efficiently
than dense video-only approaches.

Short VideoAudiovisual Long Video1 s200 s15 s1 s200 s15 s1 s200 s15 sLongVideoDenseSparse“Someoneputsonionsintheskilletandbeatseggsandotheringredientsintoabowlbeforeaddingthemtotheskillettoo.”050100150200Temporal Support (in seconds)020406080100TFLOPsTraditional: Dense VideoOurs: Sparse Video + Dense AudioECLIPSE

3

Based on this motivation, we introduce EclipSE, an Efficient CLIP with
Sound Encoding. Instead of processing many densely-extracted frames from a
long video (the middle column in Figure 1), our framework leverages comple-
mentary audio and video cues by operating on sparsely sampled video frames
accompanied by dense audio (the rightmost column in Figure 1). We demon-
strate that compared to dense video-only approaches, our framework is not only
more efficient but it is also more accurate.

Our approach adapts CLIP to long-range videos by incorporating a dual-
pathway audiovisual attention block into every layer of the Transformer back-
bone. Such a cross-modal attention mechanism allows our model to (i) incorpo-
rate long-range temporal cues from the audio stream into the visual representa-
tion, and (ii) conversely inject rich visual features from the video modality into
audio representation for improved audio feature expressivity. Such bi-directional
exchange of information ensures that both modalities benefit from each other
in order to maximize the performance of the downstream application (i.e., long-
range text-to-video retrieval). Additionally, we demonstrate that our audiovisual
attention block can be easily incorporated into pretrained transformer models
such as CLIP [15] without re-training the new model from scratch.

We validate EclipSE on several diverse long-range video retrieval bench-
marks and show that it achieves state-of-the-art results on ActivityNet [26],
QVHighlights [27], DiDeMo [28], YouCook2 [29], and Charades [30] while being
2.92× faster and 2.34× memory-efficient than long-range video-only methods.

In summary, our contributions are threefold. First, we propose EclipSE,
an audiovisual adaptation of CLIP that leverages complementary video and au-
dio cues for long-range video retrieval. Second, we demonstrate that compared
to long-range video-only approaches, our audiovisual framework leads to bet-
ter video retrieval results at a reduced computational cost. Lastly, we provide
comprehensive ablation studies investigating the success factors of EclipSE .

2 Related Work

Text-to-Video Retrieval. The association of text descriptions and videos
provides rich supervisory signals for developing robust text-to-video retrieval
systems. Self-supervised learning approaches in this area achieve impressive
results using contrastive loss [3,31,32,33,34,35,36], masked language modeling
[37,38,39,40,41], or masked feature prediction [42]. Additionally, several prior
methods propose to incorporate rich audio/speech information for video-and-
text representations learning, either by fusing cross-modal signals [6,43,44] or
masking inputs from different modalities during training [7,45]. Furthermore,
with large-scale pre-training on millions of image and text pairs, CLIP [15] has
achieved impressive results on a wide array of vision-and-language tasks. Re-
cently, CLIP-based approaches [46,47,16,48,49,13,14,50,51] have also been used
in video by aggregating image-level outputs across different time steps.

Unlike these prior methods, which are designed for short-range videos (e.g.,
5-15s), we aim to design an audivosual framework for retrieving long videos (e.g.,

4

Lin et al.

several minutes in length). Compared to the existing CLIP-based approaches,
which are difficult to adapt to long videos due to the large computational cost of
processing many densely-extracted video frames, we propose to leverage compact
audio cues in order to reduce the need for the costly video modality. This enables
efficient adaptation of CLIP to long video retrieval.

Audiovisual Learning. Audio and video synchronization is commonly used
for self-supervised audio-visual learning [52,53,54,19,22,55,23,56,57,58,59]. Aside
from self-supervised learning, many recent methods were proposed for audio-
visual event classification [60,25,17,24,61]. Furthermore, the recent popularity of
Transformers [62,63,64,65] have enabled a wide array of architectures for jointly
modeling audio and video data [66,67,68,69,70,71,72]. Compared to these prior
approaches, our approach focuses on efficient long-range text-to-video retrieval.
Specifically, we aim to leverage audio cues in order to reduce the computational
cost of processing long videos.

Long Sequence Modeling. Recent work in the natural language processing
(NLP) domain [73,74,75] proposed to approximate the self-attention operator for
long sequence modeling. While these approaches are effective in NLP, they are
still very costly in the video domain due to the high dimensionality of video
inputs. Furthermore, as demonstrated by recent work in the video domain [75],
such approximation techniques lead to a substantial accuracy drop while produc-
ing limited efficiency gains for video recognition tasks. Additionally, we note that
these approximation mechanisms are often incompatible with pretrained vision-
and-language models such as CLIP (due to different network architectures).

3 EclipSE: Efficient CLIP with Sound Encoding

Our goal is to design an efficient framework that leverages audiovisual cues for
long-range text-to-video retrieval. Instead of processing many densely-extracted
frames from a long video, which is costly, our framework operates on sparsely
sampled video frames accompanied by dense audio. We adapt CLIP to long-
range videos by adding a dual-pathway audiovisual attention block into every
layer of the Transformer backbone. Our video retrieval framework consists of
three high-level components: (i) multimodal input embeddings, (ii) an audiovi-
sual backbone for processing video and audio modalities, and (iii) a contrastive
video-to-text matching objective. Below we provide more details behind each of
these components. We also illustrate our framework in Figure 3.

3.1 Obtaining Multimodal Input Embeddings

Video, Audio and Text Inputs. Our framework takes audio, video, and
text modalities as its inputs. For video modality, we consider video clips X ∈
RT ×H×W ×3 consisting of T RGB frames of size H × W , sampled uniformly from
the whole input video. For audio, we use T audio spectrograms Z ∈ RT ×M ×C,
each spanning t seconds and centered around each of T video frames. Here, M
and C depict spatial spectrogram dimensions. Lastly, the text is represented as a

ECLIPSE

5

sequence y = (y1, . . . , yL) where yi represents a distinct word in the textual video
description and L is the length of the description (i.e., the number of words).

Video Patch Decomposition. Following the ViT [63], we decompose each
frame into N non-overlapping patches, each of size P × P , and flatten these
patches into vectors x(p,t) ∈ R3P 2
where p = 1, . . . , N denotes spatial locations
and t = 1, . . . , T indicates a frame index.

Video Patch Embeddings. Video patches from each frame x(p,t) are lin-
early mapped into vectors v(0)
(p,t) ∈ Rd, for p = 1 . . . N , and t = 1 . . . T . Afterward,
we also augment each visual token with spatiotemporal position information as
is done in [76]. A specialized CLS token v(0)
cls is prepended to the visual sequence
of each frame. Finally, the embeddings V(0) ∈ RT ×(N +1)×d are used as visual
inputs to our EclipSE model.

Audio Embeddings. Given an audio spectrogram Zt ∈ RM ×C, an audio
encoder maps it into audio embeddings A(0)
t ∈ Rd for each timestep t = 1 . . . T
where as before, T denotes the number of video frames. We note that the audio
encoder can be either a CNN [77,78,79] or a Transformer [80,81]. Afterward, the
audio embeddings A(0) ∈ RT ×d are fed into EclipSE together with the visual
tokens V(0) ∈ RT ×(N +1)×d.

Text Embeddings. We use a pretrained CLIP [15] text encoder to embed
a textual video description y = (y1, . . . , yL) into a textual embedding g ∈ Rd
where g corresponds to the CLS token of a given text sequence.

3.2 Audiovisual Attention Block

Although videos contain rich information, they are also redundant and costly
to process. In contrast, audio is more compact and cheaper. Thus, we propose
an audiovisual attention block that gradually incorporates relevant audio cues
into the visual representation. Our audiovisual attention block consists of three
distinct attention schemes: (i) spatial visual attention, (ii) audio-to-video atten-
tion, and (iii) video-to-audio attention. We next describe each of these attention
schemes in more detail.

Multi-Head Self-Attention. All of our three attention schemes are imple-

mented using a standard multi-head self-attention:

MHA(Q, K, V) = Softmax

(cid:18) QK⊤
√
d

(cid:19)

V,

(1)

where Q, K, V are the query, key and value matrices obtained using learnable
projection weights WQ, WK, WV ∈ Rd×d respectively. With this formal de-
scription of the MHA function, we can now proceed to the definitions of the
three attention schemes in our audiovisual attention block.

Spatial Attention. In order to preserve the pretrained network structure of
CLIP, we use an identical spatial attention scheme as in CLIP. Intuitively, spatial
attention enables our model to obtain discriminative frame-level representation
by aggregating relevant information from the visual tokens in the individual
video frames. We can implement this scheme using our previously defined MHA

6

Lin et al.

Fig. 3. We adapt CLIP [15] to long-range text-to-video retrieval by adding an effi-
cient audiovisual attention block into the Transformer architecture. First, we obtain
fixed dimensional text, audio, and visual feature embeddings. Afterward, the visual
and audio embeddings are fed into our EclipSE audiovisual backbone, which injects
relevant audio information to video and vice-versa. This is accomplished using a dual-
pathway audiovisual attention block (illustrated on the right), which is stacked on top
of each other F times. Afterward, the audiovisual video segments are aggregated using
temporal pooling, and the model is optimized by maximizing the similarity between
audiovisual and textual embeddings using a contrastive loss function.

function as:

t

t

.

, V(ℓ−1)
t

, V(ℓ−1)
t

) + V(ℓ−1)
t

t = MHA(V(ℓ−1)
S(ℓ)

(2)
Here, S(ℓ)
t ∈ R(N +1)×d is our newly computed spatial self-attention representa-
tion for frame t, and V(ℓ−1)
is a visual patch representation for frame t from
the previous transformer layer l − 1, which is used as input to the transformer
layer l. Note that in the spatial self-attention, the multi-head self-attention is
applied independently for each of T video frames. As discussed above, this en-
ables us to preserve the network structure of the original CLIP model, which is
essential for good text-to-video retrieval performance. For brevity, we omit the
layer normalization operation, which is applied to V(ℓ)
t before feeding it to the
spatial attention block. The right part of Figure 3 provides a visual illustration
of where spatial attention fits within our audiovisual attention block.

Audio-to-Video Attention (A2V). To efficiently incorporate temporal
audio cues into static video frame representation, we use an audio-to-video (A2V)
attention mechanism, which is also illustrated in the right part of Figure 3 (la-
beled as Cross-Attn A2V module). This operation can be written as:

V(ℓ)

t = MHA(S(ℓ−1)

t

, A(ℓ−1), A(ℓ−1)) + S(ℓ−1)

t

.

(3)

CLSCLS“Someoneputsonionsintheskilletandbeatseggsandotheringredientsintoabowlbeforeaddingthemtotheskillettoo.”Contrastive LossECLIPSEMean pooing across time  Text representationAudioEncoderCLSTextEncoderCLSPatch DecompositionVisual TokensCross-Attn(A2V)Spatial-AttnFeedForwardAudioFeaturesCross-Attn (V2A)FeedForwardAudiovisual Attention BlockECLIPSE

7

t

Here, A(ℓ−1) ∈ RT ×d depicts our previously defined audio representation at layer
l − 1, and S(ℓ−1)
∈ R(N +1)×d denotes a spatial video representation at timestep
t computed using our previously defined spatial attention block. Intuitively, the
new visual representation V(ℓ)
is computed as a weighted summation of the audio
features, which enables the model to incorporate long-range audio cues into the
visual features. Furthermore, because the audio representation is compact, the
operation above can be implemented efficiently.

t

Video-to-Audio Attention (V2A). Conversely, to inject rich visual in-
formation into compact audio features, we use a video-to-audio (V2A) attention
mechanism (illustrated in Figure 3 as Cross-Attn V2A module). We implement
this attention scheme as:

A(ℓ)

t = MHA(A(ℓ−1)

, S(ℓ−1)
(4)
t
At a high level, the operation above computes a new audio feature representation
for each timestep t as a weighted combination of all the visual token features at
timestep t. This allows us to improve the richness of the audio representation.

) + A(ℓ−1)
t

, S(ℓ−1)
t

.

t

Final Audiovisual Representation. Following CLIP4Clip [16], we stack
our audiovisual attention block F times (F typically being set to 12). Afterward,
we perform temporal pooling over the CLS tokens across all video frames, to
obtain the final audiovisual representation f ∈ Rd.

3.3 Loss Function

We use the same contrastive video-to-text matching loss as in [16]. Specifically,
we compute the similarity between text and video using a normalized dot product
between the two embeddings f and g. We consider the matching text-video pairs
in a given batch as positive samples and all the other pairs in that same batch as
negative samples. To train our model, we minimize the sum of the video-to-text
and text-to-video matching losses [16].

3.4

Implementation Details

Our EclipSE follows CLIP4Clip [16] setting where text encoder and visual en-
coder are initialized with CLIP weights [15]. Specifically, we initialize the spatial
attention weights with the weights from CLIP. We also use CLIP weights to
initialize both of our cross-modal attention blocks. We attach zero-initialized
linear projection layers to the outputs of both cross-modal attention blocks so
that the initial outputs of these blocks would be set to zero. Unless otherwise
noted, for all of our experiments, we use a ViT-B/32 with uniformly sampled
32-frame inputs spanning the whole input video. The visual frames are extracted
at 3 fps. We implement EclipSE using Pytorch [82] and conduct the training
on four NVIDIA A6000 GPUs. For a fair comparison with the baselines, we set
the batch size to 64. For audio encoder, we use ResNet-18 [83] pre-trained on
VGGSound [79]. We sample 10-second audio clips in the neighborhood around
the sampled video frame and process the raw audio into a spectrogram as is done

8

Lin et al.

in [79]. We train our model with Adam optimizer [84] and set the learning rate
to 1e − 7 for text encoder and spatial attention in Eq. 2. The frame-level CLS
tokens are averaged to obtain the final video embedding.

Furthermore, the maximum text input is set to 64 tokens for DiDeMo and

QVHighlight, and 128 for ActivityNet Captions and YouCook2.

4 Experimental Setup

4.1 Downstream Datasets

We evaluate EclipSE on five diverse long-range datasets: ActivityNet Cap-
tions [26], QVHighlights [27], DiDeMo [28], YouCook2 [29], and Charades [30].
ActivityNet Captions [26] consists of 20,000 YouTube human activity
videos, each annotated with temporally localized sentence descriptions, with a
total of 100,000 sentences. The average video length is 180 seconds, which makes
this dataset well suited for verifying our model’s ability to retrieve long-range
videos. We follow [16,85,6,2] to evaluate paragraph-to-video retrieval, where we
concatenate all the sentence descriptions to form a paragraph. Since there is no
test set provided, we evaluate the video retrieval results on the val1 split.

QVHighlights [27] contains 3,164 videos (10,148 clips) from YouTube, cov-
ering a wide range of topics, including everyday activities in lifestyle vlog videos
to social and political activities in news videos. Each video is temporally an-
notated with multiple text queries describing distinct spans of the video. The
average video length is around 8 minutes. The original dataset is created for mo-
ment localization and highlight detection. Here we re-purpose it for text-to-video
retrieval by evaluating it in paragraph-to-video retrieval setup as ActivityNet
Captions. We use the standard splits for training, validation, and testing.

DiDeMo [28] contains 10,464 Flickr videos with 40,543 temporally localized
sentences. The average video length is 30 seconds. Similar to ActivityNet Cap-
tion, we evaluate paragraph-to-video retrieval on DiDeMo. We use the standard
splits for training, validation, and testing.

YouCook2 [29] consists of 2,000 videos capturing 89 complex recipes with
total duration of 176 hours. The average video length is 5.26 minutes. Each video
is annotated with multiple temporally localized captions. Similar to ActivityNet
Captions, we evaluate all methods in the paragraph-to-video retrieval setting.
We use standard splits for training, validation, and testing.

Charades [30] contains 9,848 videos with the corresponding textual descrip-
tions. The average video length is about 28 seconds. We use standard train and
test splits for training and testing.

4.2 Evaluation Metrics

We use standard video retrieval evaluation metrics [9,16] such as text-to-video
R@1, R@5, R@10, and mean rank (MnR) to validate the effectiveness of our
EclipSE model. Since our model is built on CLIP, which is pretrained on a large-
scale image-and-text dataset [15], the comparisons with some of the previous

ECLIPSE

9

Table 1. ActivityNet Captions. We compare EclipSE with previous video re-
trieval methods. In the column Pretrain, C,G,H,W,CW,V denote COCO Captions [86],
Visual Genome Captions [87], HowTo100M [88], WIT [15], CC3M [89]+WebVid2M [3]
and VGGSound [79] datasets respectively. The performance is evaluated using text-
to-video retrieval R@1, R@5, R@10 and MnR metrics. EclipSE achieves the best re-
ported accuracy on this benchmark. We also note that using a stronger visual backbone
(i.e., ViT-B/16 vs. ViT-B/32) also leads to better video retrieval performance.

Method

Pretrain Frames R@1 ↑ R@5 ↑ R@10 ↑ MnR ↓

-
CE [43]
C+G
ClipBERT [9]
-
TT-CE [1]
H
MMT [6]
CW
FiT [3]
H
SSB [31]
HiT [2]
H
CLIP4Clip [16] (ViT-B/32) W
EclipSE (ViT-B/32)
EclipSE (ViT-B/16)

W+V
W+V

-
40
64
-
32
-
-
64
32
32

18.2
21.3
23.4
28.7
28.9
29.2
29.6
40.7
42.3
45.3

47.7
49.0
57.2
61.4
57.8
61.6
60.7
71.8
73.2
75.7

−
−
−
−
71.2
−
−
83.4
83.8
86.2

23.1
−
−
16.0
−
−
−
8.2
8.2
6.2

methods are not directly applicable. Therefore, in all of our evaluations, we use
a publicly available state-of-the-art CLIP4Clip [16] video retrieval system as our
primary baseline.

5 Results and Analysis

5.1 ActivityNet Captions

Comparison to the State-of-the-Art. In Table 1, we report the results of
our method on ActivityNet Captions. These results indicate several interest-
ing findings. First, we notice that the gap between CLIP-based methods (i.e.,
CLIP4Clip, EclipSE) and other previous approaches is significant (> 10% in
R@1 metric). This result justifies our motivation to build on the powerful CLIP
model. Second, our results indicate that EclipSE outperforms CLIP4Clip by
a substantial margin (1.6% in R@1), which suggests the usefulness of temporal
audio cues. Third, we also note that unlike CLIP4Clip, which operates on 64
frame inputs, EclipSE achieves higher accuracy while processing fewer frames
(i.e., 32). Lastly, we show that using a stronger visual backbone (i.e., ViT-B/16
vs. ViT-B/32) leads to improved video retrieval performance.

Accuracy vs. Number of Frames. We next investigate the trade-off be-
tween video retrieval accuracy and the number of input frames. In Figure 4,
we plot the long-range text-to-video retrieval accuracy (i.e., R@1) as a func-
tion of the number of input frames. Based on these results, we observe that
EclipSE consistently outperforms CLIP4Clip in 8, 32 and 96-frame regimes.
Furthermore, we notice that EclipSE achieves higher accuracy than CLIP4Clip
even when operating on a much smaller number of video frames (e.g., 32 vs 96).

10

Lin et al.

Computational Cost Analysis. We
note that compared to the video-only ap-
proaches, our proposed EclipSE uses an
additional audio modality. However, we
would also like to emphasize that we use
audio to improve the efficiency of the
costly video-only approaches rather than
merely improving the absolute video re-
trieval accuracy. In Table 2, we com-
pare the computational cost of a 96-frame
CLIP4Clip with our 32-frame EclipSE.
Based on these results, we observe that
EclipSE uses 2.3× less GPU memory,
runs 2.92× faster, and achieves better ac-
curacy (42.3 vs. 41.7) than CLIP4Clip.
This suggests that replacing the costly
video modality with the audio makes our
retrieval framework more efficient and also improves its accuracy.

Fig. 4. We compare EclipSE with
CLIP4Clip with a varying number
of
frames. Our method outperforms
CLIP4Clip while using the same num-
ber or even fewer frames.

5.2 Results on Other Long-range Datasets

Next, we validate our approach on four other long-range video datasets: QVHigh-
lights [27] (QVH), DiDeMo [28], YouCook2 [29] (YC2), and Charades [30]. Since
long-range video retrieval is a relatively unexplored subarea of research, we
note that QVHighlights, YouCook2, and Charades are not formally used for the
long-range video retrieval task. However, all three of these datasets contain (i)
long videos and (ii) multiple annotated text descriptions of short-term segments
within each long video. Thus, to re-purpose these datasets for long-range text-to-
video retrieval, we follow the protocol of ActivityNet Captions [26]. Specifically,
we concatenate the textual descriptions of all short-term segments in a given
long video and treat it as a paragraph-to-video retrieval task similar to [26]. In
our comparisons, we also include other recent video retrieval methods such as
ClipBERT [9], Frozen in Time (FiT) [3], and CLIP4Clip [16].

Table 2. We compare the computational cost of a 32-frame EclipSE with a 96-frame
CLIP4Clip [16] on ActivityNet Captions. Both methods are built using a ViT-B/32
architecture. Despite using fewer frames, EclipSE outperforms CLIP4Clip. Addition-
ally, our method uses 2.3× less GPU memory, runs 2.92× faster and is generally more
efficient as indicated by the number of GFLOPs (i.e., 827 vs 1251).

Method

Num.
Frames

Inference
GFLOPs ↓

GPU Mem.
(in MB) ↓

Samples
per Sec. ↑

T2V
R@1 ↑

CLIP4Clip
EclipSE

96
32

1251
827

24,802
10,637

17.39
50.93

41.7
42.3

020406080100Number of Input Frames384042Text-to-Video R@1 AccuracyECLIPSE (Ours)CLIP4ClipECLIPSE

11

Table 3. Our results on QVHighlights [27] (QVH), YouCook2 [29] (YC2), Cha-
rades [30] and DiDeMo [28] using the R@1 T2V metric. A 32-frame EclipSE with
a ViT-B/32 backbone outperforms prior approaches while also being more efficient.

Method

Pretrain Frames QVH DiDeMo YC2 Charades GFLOPs

ClipBERT [9] C+G
FiT [3]
CLIP4Clip [16] W
EclipSE

CW

W+V

32
32
96
32

43.2
55.0
70.2
70.8

20.4
35.8
42.5
44.2

29.8
32.2
37.6
38.5

6.7
11.9
13.9
15.7

-
1426
1251
827

In Table 3, we show that a 32-frame EclipSE with a ViT-B/32 backbone
outperforms prior methods on all four datasets. Additionally, we point out that
our method is more efficient than both FiT [3] and CLIP4Clip [16] (827 vs. 1251
vs. 1426 in GFLOPs).

Potential Overlap between Audio and Video Datasets. Next, we want
to verify that the videos used to pretrain our audio encoders were not present in
the test sets of the video retrieval benchmarks. Upon our investigation, we found
that the overlap between VGGSound, which was used to pretrain our best audio
model, and ActivityNet Captions was small, i.e., 42 out of 4, 926 videos (0.8%).
Furthermore, there were no overlaps between the VGGSound and all of the other
datasets. To validate that our original conclusions on ActivityNet still hold,
we conducted additional experiments on the deduplicated ActivityNet dataset
where the overlapping test videos were removed. We used the same CLIP4Clip
and EclipSE methods as in Table 1. We report that EclipSE achieved 42.3%
T2V R@1 accuracy while CLIP4Clip obtained 40.8%. Both of these results are
almost identical to the results in Table 1 (i.e., 42.3% and 40.7% respectively).

5.3 Ablation Studies

Next, we investigate how different design choices of our model affect the long-
range video retrieval accuracy on the ActivityNet Captions dataset [26].

Audiovisual Block Design. First, we validate the effectiveness of our au-
diovisual attention block by comparing it to (i) a joint audiovisual attention that
processes concatenated video and audio tokens, (ii) the variant of our model that
only uses audio-to-video (A2V) attention (Eq. 3) and (iii) our final model that
uses both audio-to-video (A2V) and video-to-audio (V2A) attentions (Eq. 3 and
Eq. 4). For efficiency, all models are trained using 8-frame inputs.

From the results in Figure 5a, we observe that using a bi-directional audiovi-
sual attention (i.e., both audio-to-video (A2V) and video-to-audio (V2A)) leads
to the best R@1 text-to-video retrieval accuracy on ActivityNet.

Different Audio Encoders. Next, we study how different audio encoders
affect the video retrieval performance of our model. Specifically, we experiment
with CNN-based audio encoders such as VGGish [78] and VGGSound [79], and
also a transformer-based audio encoder AST [81]. Our results in Figure 5b sug-

12

Lin et al.

Fig. 5. (a) In the left subfigure, we study different audiovisual block design. Joint AV
refers to standard self-attention applied to concatenated audio and video tokens. A2V
refers to a single cross-modal audio-to-video attention block (Eq. 3). Lastly, A2V+V2A
depicts our dual-pathway attention block design (Eq. 3 and Eq. 4). Based on these
results, we observe that dual-pathway attention achieves the best performance. For
efficiency, we use 8 frame inputs for these experiments. (b) In the middle subfigure, we
also investigate different audio encoders applied to different duration audio segments.
These results indicate that (i) longer audio typically improves the performance, (ii)
EclipSE is robust to different audio encoders. (c) In the right subfigure, we study
video retrieval accuracy as a function of the number of audiovisual attention blocks.
Based on these results, we observe that injecting our proposed audiovisual attention
block into every layer of our 12-layer EclipSE model leads to the best performance.

gest that our framework is robust to the choice of an audio encoder, as all three
audio encoders produce a similar performance.

Audio Duration. Additionally, we investigate how audio duration affects
the accuracy of a long-range video retrieval task. In Figure 5b, we experiment
with audio spectrograms of 10, 20, and 30 seconds. Our results indicate that
longer audio duration leads to better performance. However, the performance
gain is relatively small (i.e., 0.5% in R@1), suggesting that 10s audio spectro-
grams are typically sufficient to capture relevant audio cues.

The Number of Audiovisual Attention Blocks. In Figure 5c, we also
study the video retrieval performance (using R@1) as a function of the number
of audiovisual attention blocks in our 12-layer EclipSE model. Using k audio-
visual attention blocks implies that these k audiovisual blocks are injected into
the first k layers of the network while the remaining 12 − k layers only con-
sider visual information. Our results indicate that video retrieval performance
decreases when we use fewer audiovisual attention blocks. In other words, our
method achieves the best video retrieval accuracy when the audiovisual attention
block is inserted into every layer of our EclipSE architecture.

The Importance of CLIP Pretraining. To highlight the importance of
CLIP pretraining, we compare CLIP pretraining with the ImageNet-21k pre-
training. We use the ViT-B/32 architecture for these experiments. We report that
compared to the ImageNet-21k pretraining, CLIP pretraining leads to 27.1%,
34.6%, 24.2%, 42.5% better T2V R@1 retrieval accuracy on ActivityNet, DiDeMo,

10s15s20s4141.54242.54343.544Text-to-Video R@1 AccuracyVGGishVGGSound-R18ASTa) Audiovisual Attention         Design Ablationb) Audio Encoder Ablation  at Different Audio DurationsJoint AVA2VA2V + V2A3737.53838.53939.540Text-to-Video R@1 Accuracyc) Ablating the Number of Audiovisual Attention Blocks04812The Num. of Audiovisual Attention Blocks40.54141.54242.5Text-to-Video R@1 AccuracyECLIPSE

13

Fig. 6. Here, we illustrate our qualitative retrieval results on ActivityNet Captions [26].
We compare our audiovisual EclipSE model with a video-only CLIP4Clip [16]. For
a given a textual query (depicted in a green block), we visualize each method’s top-
1 retrieved video. Our results indicate that the video-only CLIP4Clip struggles with
retrieval when textual queries include audio event descriptions, e.g., “a woman speaking
to the camera", “a person playing the violin," etc. (see bolded text). In these cases,
CLIP4Clip fails to retrieve the correct video instances, whereas EclipSE effectively
leverages audiovisual cues for a successful retrieval.

YouCook2, and QVHighlights respectively. These results suggest that CLIP pre-
training is essential for good downstream video retrieval performance.

Single Modality Baselines. We also report the results of (i) 180-second
audio-only, (ii) 64-frame video-only, and (iii) our 32-frame audiovisual meth-
ods. On ActivityNet Captions, the three approaches achieve 2.7%, 40.7%, and
42.3% R1 T2V retrieval accuracy respectively. These results indicate that jointly
modeling audio and video achieves the best accuracy. We also note that while
audio alone obtains poor accuracy, audio effectively complements video in our
audiovisual approach. We observe similar trends on all other datasets too.

5.4 Qualitative Results

Video Retrieval Results. In Figure 6, we also illustrate some of the qualita-
tive video retrieval results on ActivityNet Captions [26]. Specifically, for a given
textual query (illustrated in the green blocks in Figure 6), we visualize the top-1
retrieved video by our audiovisual EclipSE and the video-only CLIP4Clip base-
line. Based on these results, we observe that the video-only CLIP4Clip method
struggles to retrieve videos for textual queries that include audio-based event
descriptions. For instance, in the first example of Figure 6, the textual query

Awomanisseenspeakingtothecamerawhilestandingaroundagroupofexerciseequipment.Thewomanshowshowtoadjusttheexerciseequipmentthenclimbsontopandbeginsusingit.Thewomancontinuesridingonthebikewhilespeakingtothecameraandclimbingoffintheend.Retrieval Top-1Thepersonstepsuptothewindowwiththeviolin.Thepersonstartsplayingtheviolinnearthewindow.Theimageofthepersonchangestoadigitallyanimatedscreen.ECLIPSECLIP4ClipRetrieval Top-1Retrieval Top-1ECLIPSECLIP4ClipRetrieval Top-114

Lin et al.

Fig. 7. Here, we illustrate qualitative sound localization results of our method. Note
that our EclipSE is not explicitly trained for the sound localization task. In other
words, EclipSE learns implicit associations between objects and sounds while being
optimized with respect to the video retrieval task.

mentions an audio-based event of “a woman speaking to the camera" (see bolded
text). Furthermore, the textual query in the second example also involves a sound
event of “a person playing the violin."

Since CLIP4Clip, does not have any audiovisual modeling capabilities, it fails
to retrieve the correct video in these cases. In contrast, EclipSE retrieves the
correct videos in all three illustrated cases, thus, highlighting the importance of
incorporating video and audio cues for effective long-range video retrieval.

Sound Localization Results. In Figure 7, we also demonstrate quali-
tative sound localization results of our method. By computing the similarity
between audio features and visual patches, we can obtain saliency maps that
are indicative of sound sources in the video. Note that our method does not
require any additional sound localization training objective. In other words,
EclipSE successfully learns associations between sound sources and objects
(e.g., a woman talking, a man playing the violin, a man using a chainsaw) as a
byproduct of being trained for the video retrieval task.

6 Conclusions

In this paper, we present a novel audiovisual framework, EclipSE, for long-
range video retrieval. By replacing costly and redundant parts of the video, with
compact audio cues, EclipSE efficiently processes long-range videos while also
obtaining better performance than standard video-only methods. Our audiovi-
sual framework is (i) flexible, (ii) fast, (iii) memory-efficient, and (iv) it achieves
state-of-the-art results on five diverse long-range video benchmarks. In the fu-
ture, we plan to extend our method to other multimodal video understanding
tasks such as video question answering and video captioning.

Thepersonstepsuptothewindowwiththeviolin.Thepersonstartsplayingtheviolinnearthewindow.Theimageofthepersonchangestoadigitallyanimatedscreen.LocalizedSoundWeseeatitlescreenwithaphotoofabuffman.Weseeamantalkinginayard.Weseethehousetheyardispartof.Weseethemanchoppingwood.Weseeanoldermanusingachainsawonthetree.Weseeadogplayingintheyard.Weseeapileoflogsintheyard.Weseetheclosingtitlescreen.LocalizedSoundECLIPSE

15

A Appendix

Our appendix consists of:

1. Implementation Details.
2. Additional Quantitative Results.
3. Additional Qualitative Results.
4. A Supplementary Video.

B Additional Implementation Details

Experimental Setting. In all experiments, the visual frames are extracted at
3 fps. We adopt pretrained CLIP [15] on both text and visual encoder, which
is based on the ViT-B/32 visual backbone. We initialize the weights of our
proposed audiovisual block using the corresponding spatial attention weights
of CLIP. To gradually incorporate audio information into visual features, we
attach a learnable fully connected layer to each audiovisual attention block and
initially set it to zero. For visual representations, we first "patchify" 224 × 224
video frames into 32 × 32 patches as is done in [15]. Each video frame is then
tokenized into 49 patches and a learnable 768-dimensional CLS token. At the
end, the frame-level CLS tokens are averaged to obtain a video-level feature
embedding that is used to optimize our model as described in Section 3.3. For
audio encoder, we use ResNet-18 [83] pre-trained on VGGSound [79]. We sample
10-second audio clips in the neighborhood around the sampled video frame and
process the raw audio into spectrogram as is done in [79]. Lastly, for textual
features, we adopt CLIP tokenizer for all text inputs. Specifically, the textual
encoder processes all textual tokens and a special 768-dimensional CLS token as
its inputs. Afterward, we only consider the CLS textual token to match a given
video with the corresponding textual description.
Training Details. We implement EclipSE using Pytorch [82] and conduct the
training on four NVIDIA A6000 GPUs. For fair comparison with the baseline
methods, we set the batch size to 64. We train our model with Adam opti-
mizer [84] and set the learning rate to 1e − 7 for text encoder and spatial atten-
tion in Eq. 2 of main paper with weight decay 0.2. For our audiovisual attention
blocks, A2V and V2A (see Eq. 3 and Eq. 4 in our main draft). The maximum
text input is set to 64 tokens for Charades, DiDeMo, and QVHighlight. We set
128 for ActivityNet Captions and YouCook2 due to longer paragraph.

C Additional Quantitative Results

Ablating Different Frame Sampling Strategies. In Table 4, we investigate
different video frame sampling strategies on ActivityNet Captions using R@1
evaluation metric. Specifically, we experiment with uniform and random frame
sampling using a CLIP4Clip baseline [16]. For uniform sampling, we sample
the frames uniformly throughout the entire input video. For random sampling,

16

Lin et al.

Table 4. We investigate how different video frame sampling strategies affect the per-
formance of a video-only CLIP4Clip [16] baseline on ActivityNet Captions [26]. The
results are reported in text-to-video R@1 metrics. We observe that for a smaller num-
ber of frames (e.g., 32-64) random sampling yields slightly better performance than
the uniform sapling. Conversely, for a larger number of frames (e.g., 96-128) uniform
sampling leads to better accuracy.

Method

Uniform

Num. Frames

32

64

96 128

40.4 40.7 41.7 40.9

Random Sample

41.0 41.2 40.9

40

we divide the video into a fixed number of segments, and randomly sample one
frame within each segment. Based on the results in Table 4, we note that random
sampling improves performance for a smaller number of video frames (e.g., 32-
64). Conversely, when using a larger number of frames (e.g., 96-128) the uniform
sampling strategy leads to slightly better accuracy. For simplicity, we use the
standard uniform sampling strategy for all of our experiments.
Comparison with Frozen in Time (FiT) [3]. In addition to the compar-
isons with FiT in Table 1 and Table 3 of the main draft, here, we include more
detailed comparisons on ActivityNet (Act), DiDeMo (DD), YouCook2 (YC2)
and QVHighlights (QVH). Overall, the results below indicate that compared
to FiT, EclipSE achieves better accuracy on all datasets and it also has fewer
GFLOPs for the same number of input frames.

Table 5. Frozen in Time (FiT) [3] and our results on on ActivityNet (Act),
DiDeMo (DD), YouCook2 (YC2) and QVHighlights (QVH) using the R@1 metric.
EclipSE outperforms FiT while also being more efficient.

Method

Frames Act

FiT [3]
EclipSE
FiT [3]
EclipSE

8
8
32
32

24.8
39.6
28.9
42.3

DD

34.6
40.4
35.8
44.2

YC2

21.2
28.8
32.2
38.5

QVH

GFLOPs

41.2
52.1
55.0
70.8

357
313
1426
827

D Additional Qualitative Results

Video Retrieval Results. In Figure 8, we provide additional qualitative results
of our long-range video retrieval framework on ActivityNet Captions [26]. In all
of these examples, we notice that CLIP4Clip baseline fails to capture relevant
audio-based events (e.g., people cheering). In comparison, our EclipSE model

ECLIPSE

17

successfully retrieves videos that contain complex audiovisual events, thus, high-
lighting the importance of audiovisual modeling for long-range video retrieval.
Sound Localization Results. In Figure 9, we also demonstrate qualitative
sound localization results of our method. Specifically, by computing the simi-
larity between audio features and visual patches, we can obtain saliency maps
that are indicative of sound sources in the video. Furthermore, we would like
to emphasize that our EclipSE model does not require any additional sound
localization training objective. In other words, EclipSE successfully learns as-
sociations between sound sources and objects (e.g., a woman talking, a man
playing the violin, a man using a chainsaw) as a byproduct of being trained for
the video retrieval task.

E Supplementary Video

Lastly, our appendix also includes a video (see our project page) illustrating our
qualitative results in the video format. Specifically, we include the results of our
EclipSE model on several challenging video retrieval cases. For comparison,
we also include the results of a CLIP4Clip baseline. Additionally, in these video
results, we demonstrate that EclipSE also learns to localize sounds in the video
even though it was not explicitly trained to do so. Overall, our video results
indicate that compared to CLIP4Clip, EclipSE is more robust when retrieving
long videos particularly in cases that involve complex audiovisual events.

18

Lin et al.

Fig. 8. Here, we illustrate our qualitative long-range retrieval results on Activi-
tyNet Captions [26]. We compare our audiovisual EclipSE model with a video-only
CLIP4Clip [16]. For a given a textual query (depicted in a green block), we visualize
each method’s top-1 retrieved video. Our results indicate that the video-only CLIP4Clip
struggles with retrieval when textual queries include audio event descriptions, e.g., “a
man talking", “a person cheering," etc. (see bolded text). In these cases, CLIP4Clip
fails to retrieve the correct video instances, whereas EclipSE effectively leverages au-
diovisual cues for successful long video retrieval.

Awomanisseenspeakingtothecamerawhilestandingaroundagroupofexerciseequipment.Thewomanshowshowtoadjusttheexerciseequipmentthenclimbsontopandbeginsusingit.Thewomancontinuesridingonthebikewhilespeakingtothecameraandclimbingoffintheend.Retrieval Top-1Thepersonstepsuptothewindowwiththeviolin.Thepersonstartsplayingtheviolinnearthewindow.Theimageofthepersonchangestoadigitallyanimatedscreen.ECLIPSECLIP4ClipRetrieval Top-1Retrieval Top-1ECLIPSECLIP4ClipRetrieval Top-1Weseeatitlescreenwithaphotoofabuffman.Weseeamantalkinginayard.Weseethehousetheyardispartof.Weseethemanchoppingwood.Weseeanoldermanusingachainsawonthetree.Weseeadogplayingintheyard.Weseeapileoflogsintheyard.Weseetheclosingtitlescreen.Retrieval Top-1ECLIPSECLIP4ClipRetrieval Top-1Weseeanopeningtitlescreen.Weseealandscapeinthedesert.Weseeamantalking.Wethenseeonemanclimbingasheercliff.Weseetheclimberfromadistance.Weseethemanfromadistanceandashereachesthetop.Weseethemantalkingandhughisdog.Wethenseetheendingscreenagain.Retrieval Top-1…,thenjumpsontothedoubleropes…Themanthendoeshisdoubleroperoutinethatincludesalotofhandstands,…Whenthemanisdonewithhisroutinehedoesmultiplespins…,raiseshistwoarms,clapsandturns,raiseshistwoarmsagain,cheershimselfonandwalksawaywhilewavingandcelebrating….ECLIPSECLIP4ClipRetrieval Top-1Retrieval Top-1ECLIPSECLIP4ClipRetrieval Top-1ECLIPSE

19

Fig. 9. Here, we illustrate qualitative sound localization results of our method. Note
that our EclipSE is not explicitly trained for the sound localization task. In other
words, EclipSE learns implicit associations between objects and sounds while being
optimized with respect to the video retrieval task.

Weseeatitlescreenwithaphotoofabuffman.Weseeamantalkinginayard.Weseethehousetheyardispartof.Weseethemanchoppingwood.Weseeanoldermanusingachainsawonthetree.Weseeadogplayingintheyard.Weseeapileoflogsintheyard.Weseetheclosingtitlescreen.LocalizedSoundAnolderwomanisstandinginanindoorgymandistalkingwhiletwopeoplebehindhertotheleftareplayingbasketballonthecourt.Whileshe'sstilltalking,aboveheronthesecondfloortoherleft,twopeoplegorunningby.Thewomanisnolongertalkingandnowtherearetwoyoungladiesplayingbadminton.LocalizedSoundThepersonstepsuptothewindowwiththeviolin.Thepersonstartsplayingtheviolinnearthewindow.Theimageofthepersonchangestoadigitallyanimatedscreen.LocalizedSoundAwomanisseenspeakingtothecamerawhilestandingaroundagroupofexerciseequipment.Thewomanshowshowtoadjusttheexerciseequipmentthenclimbsontopandbeginsusingit.Thewomancontinuesridingonthebikewhilespeakingtothecameraandclimbingoffintheend.LocalizedSoundAmansitsdownbythesidewalkplayingaguitar.Ablackmanapproachestowatchtheguitaristperform.Awomanstandsbyrecordingtheperformer.Theblackmandancesalong,enjoyingthemusicoftheguitarist.Twoyounggirlsleavestore.Ablackmanwearingayellowvestapproachesandstartsdancingandsingingalong.Afewblackpeopleenterthestore.Awomaningraypantsleavesthestore.LocalizedSoundAyounggirlisstandinginaroomfilledwithglassdoors,playingherviolin.Shethenmovesbackandforthasshemovesthestickacrosstheviolin.Theyoungladythenstopsandsmilesatthecamerawhensheisfinished.LocalizedSound20

Lin et al.

References

1. Ioana Croitoru, Simion-Vlad Bogolin, Marius Leordeanu, Hailin Jin, Andrew Zis-
serman, Samuel Albanie, and Yang Liu. Teachtext: Crossmodal generalized distil-
lation for text-video retrieval. In ICCV, 2021. 1, 2, 9

2. Song Liu, Haoqi Fan, Shengsheng Qian, Yiru Chen, Wenkui Ding, and Zhongyuan
Wang. Hit: Hierarchical transformer with momentum contrast for video-text re-
trieval. In ICCV, 2021. 1, 2, 8, 9

3. Max Bain, Arsha Nagrani, Gül Varol, and Andrew Zisserman. Frozen in time: A
joint video and image encoder for end-to-end retrieval. In ICCV, 2021. 1, 3, 9, 10,
11, 16

4. Xiaohan Wang, Linchao Zhu, and Yi Yang. T2vlad: Global-local sequence align-

ment for text-video retrieval. In CVPR, 2021. 1

5. Michael Wray, Hazel Doughty, and Dima Damen. On semantic similarity in video

retrieval. In CVPR, 2021. 1

6. Valentin Gabeur, Chen Sun, Karteek Alahari, and Cordelia Schmid. Multi-modal

transformer for video retrieval. In ECCV, 2020. 1, 3, 8, 9

7. Valentin Gabeur, Arsha Nagrani, Chen Sun, Karteek Alahari, and Cordelia
In WACV, 2022.

Schmid. Masking modalities for cross-modal video retrieval.
1, 3

8. Hu Xu, Gargi Ghosh, Po-Yao Huang, Dmytro Okhonko, Armen Aghajanyan, Flo-
rian Metze, Luke Zettlemoyer, and Christoph Feichtenhofer. VideoCLIP: Con-
trastive pre-training for zero-shot video-text understanding.
In EMNLP, 2021.
1

9. Jie Lei, Linjie Li, Luowei Zhou, Zhe Gan, Tamara L Berg, Mohit Bansal, and
Jingjing Liu. Less is more: Clipbert for video-and-language learning via sparse
sampling. In CVPR, 2021. 2, 8, 9, 10, 11

10. Jianfeng Dong, Xirong Li, and Cees GM Snoek. Word2visualvec: Image and video

to sentence matching by visual feature prediction. arXiv Preprint, 2016. 2

11. Ran Xu, Caiming Xiong, Wei Chen, and Jason Corso. Jointly modeling deep video
and compositional text to bridge vision and language in a unified framework. In
AAAI, 2015. 2

12. Ryan Kiros, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and Richard S Zemel. Unifying visual-semantic
embeddings with multimodal neural language models. arXiv Preprint, 2014. 2
13. Han Fang, Pengfei Xiong, Luhui Xu, and Yu Chen. Clip2video: Mastering video-

text retrieval via image clip. arXiv Preprint, 2021. 2, 3

14. Zijian Gao, Jingyu Liu, Sheng Chen, Dedan Chang, Hao Zhang, and Jinwei Yuan.
Clip2tv: An empirical study on transformer-based methods for video-text retrieval.
arXiv Preprint, 2021. 2, 3

15. Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sand-
hini Agarwal, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al.
Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervision. In ICML,
2021. 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 15

16. Huaishao Luo, Lei Ji, Ming Zhong, Yang Chen, Wen Lei, Nan Duan, and Tianrui
Li. CLIP4Clip: An empirical study of clip for end to end video clip retrieval. arXiv
Preprint, 2021. 2, 3, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 13, 15, 16, 18

17. Arsha Nagrani, Shan Yang, Anurag Arnab, Aren Jansen, Cordelia Schmid, and

Chen Sun. Attention bottlenecks for multimodal fusion. In NeurIPS, 2021. 2, 4

18. Evangelos Kazakos, Jaesung Huh, Arsha Nagrani, Andrew Zisserman, and Dima
Damen. With a little help from my temporal context: Multimodal egocentric action
recognition. In BMVC, 2021. 2

ECLIPSE

21

19. Relja Arandjelović and Andrew Zisserman. Objects that sound. In ECCV, 2018.

2, 4

20. Arun Balajee Vasudevan, Dengxin Dai, and Luc Van Gool. Sound and visual

representation learning with multiple pretraining tasks. In CVPR, 2022. 2

21. Triantafyllos Afouras, Yuki M Asano, Francois Fagan, Andrea Vedaldi, and Flo-
rian Metze. Self-supervised object detection from audio-visual correspondence. In
CVPR, 2022. 2

22. Yusuf Aytar, Carl Vondrick, and Antonio Torralba. Soundnet: Learning sound

representations from unlabeled video. In NeurIPS, 2016. 2, 4

23. Humam Alwassel, Dhruv Mahajan, Lorenzo Torresani, Bernard Ghanem, and
In
Du Tran. Self-supervised learning by cross-modal audio-video clustering.
NeurIPS, 2020. 2, 4

24. Yan-Bo Lin, Hung-Yu Tseng, Hsin-Ying Lee, Yen-Yu Lin, and Ming-Hsuan Yang.
Exploring cross-video and cross-modality signals for weakly-supervised audio-
visual video parsing. In NeurIPS, 2021. 2, 4

25. Ruohan Gao, Tae-Hyun Oh, Kristen Grauman, and Lorenzo Torresani. Listen to

look: Action recognition by previewing audio. In CVPR, 2020. 2, 4

26. Ranjay Krishna, Kenji Hata, Frederic Ren, Li Fei-Fei, and Juan Carlos Niebles.

Dense-captioning events in videos. In ICCV, 2017. 3, 8, 10, 11, 13, 16, 18

27. Jie Lei, Tamara L Berg, and Mohit Bansal. Qvhighlights: Detecting moments and

highlights in videos via natural language queries. In NeurIPS, 2021. 3, 8, 10, 11

28. Lisa Anne Hendricks, Oliver Wang, Eli Shechtman, Josef Sivic, Trevor Darrell, and
Bryan Russell. Localizing moments in video with natural language. In ICCV, 2017.
3, 8, 10, 11

29. Luowei Zhou, Chenliang Xu, and Jason J Corso. Towards automatic learning of

procedures from web instructional videos. In AAAI, 2018. 3, 8, 10, 11

30. Gunnar A Sigurdsson, Gül Varol, Xiaolong Wang, Ali Farhadi, Ivan Laptev, and
Abhinav Gupta. Hollywood in homes: Crowdsourcing data collection for activity
understanding. In ECCV, 2016. 3, 8, 10, 11

31. Mandela Patrick, Po-Yao Huang, Yuki Asano, Florian Metze, Alexander Haupt-
mann, Joao Henriques, and Andrea Vedaldi. Support-set bottlenecks for video-text
representation learning. In ICLR, 2021. 3, 9

32. Elad Amrani, Rami Ben-Ari, Daniel Rotman, and Alex Bronstein. Noise estimation
using density estimation for self-supervised multimodal learning. In AAAI, 2020.
3

33. Antoine Miech, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Lucas Smaira, Ivan Laptev, Josef Sivic, and
Andrew Zisserman. End-to-end learning of visual representations from uncurated
instructional videos. In CVPR, 2020. 3

34. Michael Wray, Diane Larlus, Gabriela Csurka, and Dima Damen. Fine-grained

action retrieval through multiple parts-of-speech embeddings. In ICCV, 2019. 3

35. Yuying Ge, Yixiao Ge, Xihui Liu, Dian Li, Ying Shan, Xiaohu Qie, and Ping Luo.
Bridging video-text retrieval with multiple choice questions. In CVPR, 2022. 3
36. Haoyu Lu, Nanyi Fei, Yuqi Huo, Yizhao Gao, Zhiwu Lu, and Ji-Rong Wen. Cots:
Collaborative two-stream vision-language pre-training model for cross-modal re-
trieval. In CVPR, 2022. 3

37. Jinpeng Wang, Yixiao Ge, Guanyu Cai, Rui Yan, Xudong Lin, Ying Shan, Xiaohu
Qie, and Mike Zheng Shou. Object-aware video-language pre-training for retrieval.
In CVPR, 2022. 3

38. Linchao Zhu and Yi Yang. Actbert: Learning global-local video-text representa-

tions. In CVPR, 2020. 3

22

Lin et al.

39. Linjie Li, Yen-Chun Chen, Yu Cheng, Zhe Gan, Licheng Yu, and Jingjing
Liu. HERO: Hierarchical encoder for Video+Language omni-representation pre-
training. In EMNLP, 2020. 3

40. Youngjae Yu, Jongseok Kim, and Gunhee Kim. A joint sequence fusion model for

video question answering and retrieval. In ECCV, 2018. 3

41. Youngjae Yu, Hyungjin Ko, Jongwook Choi, and Gunhee Kim. End-to-end concept
word detection for video captioning, retrieval, and question answering. In CVPR,
2017. 3

42. Huaishao Luo, Lei Ji, Botian Shi, Haoyang Huang, Nan Duan, Tianrui Li, Jason Li,
Taroon Bharti, and Ming Zhou. Univl: A unified video and language pre-training
model for multimodal understanding and generation. arXiv Preprint, 2020. 3
43. Yang Liu, Samuel Albanie, Arsha Nagrani, and Andrew Zisserman. Use what you
have: Video retrieval using representations from collaborative experts. In BMVC,
2019. 3, 9

44. Niluthpol Chowdhury Mithun, Juncheng Li, Florian Metze, and Amit K Roy-
Chowdhury. Learning joint embedding with multimodal cues for cross-modal video-
text retrieval. In ICMR, 2018. 3

45. Antoine Miech, Ivan Laptev, and Josef Sivic. Learning a text-video embedding

from incomplete and heterogeneous data. arXiv Preprint, 2018. 3

46. Xing Cheng, Hezheng Lin, Xiangyu Wu, Fan Yang, and Dong Shen. Improving
video-text retrieval by multi-stream corpus alignment and dual softmax loss. arXiv
Preprint, 2021. 3

47. Zeyu Wang, Yu Wu, Karthik Narasimhan, and Olga Russakovsky. Multi-query

video retrieval. arXiv Preprint, 2022. 3

48. Maksim Dzabraev, Maksim Kalashnikov, Stepan Komkov, and Aleksandr
Petiushko. Mdmmt: Multidomain multimodal transformer for video retrieval. In
CVPRW, 2021. 3

49. Jesús Andrés Portillo-Quintero, José Carlos Ortiz-Bayliss, and Hugo Terashima-
Marín. A straightforward framework for video retrieval using clip. In MCPR, 2021.
3

50. Satya Krishna Gorti, Noël Vouitsis, Junwei Ma, Keyvan Golestan, Maksims
Volkovs, Animesh Garg, and Guangwei Yu. X-pool: Cross-modal language-video
attention for text-video retrieval. In CVPR, 2022. 3

51. Max Bain, Arsha Nagrani, Gül Varol, and Andrew Zisserman. A clip-hitchhiker’s

guide to long video retrieval. arXiv Preprint, 2022. 3

52. Andrew Owens and Alexei A. Efros. Audio-visual scene analysis with self-

supervised multisensory features. In ECCV, 2018. 4

53. Bruno Korbar, Du Tran, and Lorenzo Torresani. Cooperative learning of audio
and video models from self-supervised synchronization. In NeurIPS, 2018. 4
54. Relja Arandjelovic and Andrew Zisserman. Look, listen and learn. In ICCV, 2017.

4

55. Andrew Owens, Jiajun Wu, Josh H McDermott, William T Freeman, and Antonio
Torralba. Ambient sound provides supervision for visual learning. In ECCV, 2016.
4

56. Yuki M Asano, Mandela Patrick, Christian Rupprecht, and Andrea Vedaldi.
Labelling unlabelled videos from scratch with multi-modal self-supervision.
In
NeurIPS, 2020. 4

57. Shuang Ma, Zhaoyang Zeng, Daniel McDuff, and Yale Song. Active contrastive

learning of audio-visual video representations. In ICLR, 2021. 4

58. Pedro Morgado, Nuno Vasconcelos, and Ishan Misra. Audio-visual instance dis-

crimination with cross-modal agreement. In CVPR, 2021. 4

ECLIPSE

23

59. Pedro Morgado, Ishan Misra, and Nuno Vasconcelos. Robust audio-visual instance

discrimination. In CVPR, 2021. 4

60. Yan-Bo Lin, Yu-Jhe Li, and Yu-Chiang Frank Wang. Dual-modality seq2seq net-

work for audio-visual event localization. In ICASSP, 2019. 4

61. Shuang Ma, Zhaoyang Zeng, Daniel McDuff, and Yale Song. Contrastive learning

of global and local video representations. In NeurIPS, 2021. 4

62. Yunhua Zhang, Hazel Doughty, Ling Shao, and Cees GM Snoek. Audio-adaptive

activity recognition across video domains. In CVPR, 2022. 4

63. Alexey Dosovitskiy, Lucas Beyer, Alexander Kolesnikov, Dirk Weissenborn, Xi-
aohua Zhai, Thomas Unterthiner, Mostafa Dehghani, Matthias Minderer, Georg
Heigold, Sylvain Gelly, Jakob Uszkoreit, and Neil Houlsby. An image is worth
16x16 words: Transformers for image recognition at scale. In ICLR, 2021. 4, 5
64. Yan-Bo Lin and Yu-Chiang Frank Wang. Audiovisual transformer with instance

attention for audio-visual event localization. In ACCV, 2020. 4

65. Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones,
Aidan N Gomez, Łukasz Kaiser, and Illia Polosukhin. Attention is all you need.
In NeurIPS, 2017. 4

66. Nina Shvetsova, Brian Chen, Andrew Rouditchenko, Samuel Thomas, Brian Kings-
bury, Rogerio Feris, David Harwath, James Glass, and Hilde Kuehne. Everything
at once–multi-modal fusion transformer for video retrieval. page CVPR, 2022. 4

67. Rowan Zellers, Jiasen Lu, Ximing Lu, Youngjae Yu, Yanpeng Zhao, Moham-
madreza Salehi, Aditya Kusupati, Jack Hessel, Ali Farhadi, and Yejin Choi. Merlot
reserve: Neural script knowledge through vision and language and sound. In CVPR,
2022. 4

68. Hassan Akbari, Liangzhe Yuan, Rui Qian, Wei-Hong Chuang, Shih-Fu Chang, Yin
Cui, and Boqing Gong. Vatt: Transformers for multimodal self-supervised learning
from raw video, audio and text. In NeurIPS, 2021. 4

69. Yanpeng Zhao, Jack Hessel, Youngjae Yu, Ximing Lu, Rowan Zellers, and Yejin
Choi. Connecting the dots between audio and text without parallel data through
visual knowledge transfer. arXiv Preprint, 2021. 4

70. Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Adrià Recasens, Rosalia Schneider, Relja Arandjelović, Ja-
son Ramapuram, Jeffrey De Fauw, Lucas Smaira, Sander Dieleman, and Andrew
Zisserman. Self-supervised multimodal versatile networks. In NeurIPS, 2020. 4
71. Brian Chen, Andrew Rouditchenko, Kevin Duarte, Hilde Kuehne, Samuel Thomas,
Angie Boggust, Rameswar Panda, Brian Kingsbury, Rogerio Feris, David Har-
wath, James Glass, and Micha Picheny. Multimodal clustering networks for self-
supervised learning from unlabeled videos. In ICCV, 2021. 4

72. Yan-Bo Lin and Yu-Chiang Frank Wang. Exploiting audio-visual consistency with

partial supervision for spatial audio generation. In AAAI, 2021. 4

73. Sinong Wang, Belinda Z Li, Madian Khabsa, Han Fang, and Hao Ma. Linformer:

Self-attention with linear complexity. arXiv Preprint, 2020. 4

74. Krzysztof Marcin Choromanski, Valerii Likhosherstov, David Dohan, Xingyou
Song, Andreea Gane, Tamás Sarlós, Peter Hawkins, Jared Quincy Davis, Afroz
Mohiuddin, Lukasz Kaiser, David Benjamin Belanger, Lucy J. Colwell, and Adrian
Weller. Rethinking attention with performers. In ICLR, 2021. 4

75. Mandela Patrick, Dylan Campbell, Yuki Asano, Ishan Misra, Florian Metze,
Christoph Feichtenhofer, Andrea Vedaldi, and João F Henriques. Keeping your
eye on the ball: Trajectory attention in video transformers. In NeurIPS, 2021. 4

76. Gedas Bertasius, Heng Wang, and Lorenzo Torresani. Is space-time attention all

you need for video understanding? In ICML, 2021. 5

24

Lin et al.

77. Jort F. Gemmeke, Daniel P. W. Ellis, Dylan Freedman, Aren Jansen, Wade
Lawrence, R. Channing Moore, Manoj Plakal, and Marvin Ritter. Audio set: An
ontology and human-labeled dataset for audio events. In ICASSP, 2017. 5

78. Shawn Hershey, Sourish Chaudhuri, Daniel P. W. Ellis, Jort F. Gemmeke, Aren
Jansen, Channing Moore, Manoj Plakal, Devin Platt, Rif A. Saurous, Bryan Sey-
bold, Malcolm Slaney, Ron Weiss, and Kevin Wilson. Cnn architectures for large-
scale audio classification. In ICASSP, 2017. 5, 11

79. Honglie Chen, Weidi Xie, Andrea Vedaldi, and Andrew Zisserman. Vggsound: A

large-scale audio-visual dataset. In ICASSP, 2020. 5, 7, 8, 9, 11, 15

80. Yuan Gong, Yu-An Chung, and James Glass. AST: Audio Spectrogram Trans-

former. In INTEERSPEECH, 2021. 5

81. Yuan Gong, Yu-An Chung, and James Glass. Psla: Improving audio tagging with

pretraining, sampling, labeling, and aggregation. TASLP, 2021. 5, 11

82. Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gre-
gory Chanan, Trevor Killeen, Zeming Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, et al.
Pytorch: An imperative style, high-performance deep learning library. In NeurIPS,
2019. 7, 15

83. Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. Deep residual learning

for image recognition. In CVPR, 2016. 7, 15

84. Diederik P Kingma and Jimmy Ba. Adam: A method for stochastic optimization.

In ICLR, 2015. 8, 15

85. Bowen Zhang, Hexiang Hu, and Fei Sha. Cross-modal and hierarchical modeling

of video and text. In ECCV, 2018. 8

86. Xinlei Chen, Hao Fang, Tsung-Yi Lin, Ramakrishna Vedantam, Saurabh Gupta,
Piotr Dollár, and C Lawrence Zitnick. Microsoft coco captions: Data collection
and evaluation server. arXiv Preprint, 2015. 9

87. Ranjay Krishna, Yuke Zhu, Oliver Groth, Justin Johnson, Kenji Hata, Joshua
Kravitz, Stephanie Chen, Yannis Kalantidis, Li-Jia Li, David A Shamma, et al.
Visual genome: Connecting language and vision using crowdsourced dense image
annotations. IJCV, 2017. 9

88. Antoine Miech, Dimitri Zhukov, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Makarand Tapaswi, Ivan
Laptev, and Josef Sivic. Howto100m: Learning a text-video embedding by watching
hundred million narrated video clips. In ICCV, 2019. 9

89. Piyush Sharma, Nan Ding, Sebastian Goodman, and Radu Soricut. Conceptual
captions: A cleaned, hypernymed, image alt-text dataset for automatic image cap-
tioning. In ACL, 2018. 9

