Trafﬁc Video Event Retrieval via Text Query using Vehicle Appearance and
Motion Attributes
Tien-Phat Nguyen*1,2, Ba-Thinh Tran-Le1,2, Xuan-Dang Thai1,2,
Tam V. Nguyen4, Minh N. Do5, and Minh-Triet Tran†1,2,3
1University of Science, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
2Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
3John von Neumann Institute, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
4University of Dayton, U.S.
5University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, U.S.
{ntphat,tlbthinh,txdang}@selab.hcmus.edu.vn, tamnguyen@udayton.edu,
minhdo@illinois.edu, tmtriet@fit.hcmus.edu.vn
Abstract
Trafﬁc event retrieval is one of the important tasks for in-
telligent trafﬁc system management. To ﬁnd accurate can-
didate events in trafﬁc videos corresponding to a speciﬁc
text query, it is necessary to understand the text query’s at-
tributes, represent the visual and motion attributes of ve-
hicles in videos, and measure the similarity between them.
Thus we propose a promising method for vehicle event re-
trieval from a natural-language-based speciﬁcation. We uti-
lize both appearance and motion attributes of a vehicle and
adapt the COOT model to evaluate the semantic relation-
ship between a query and a video track. Experiments with
the test dataset of Track 5 in AI City Challenge 2021 show
that our method is among the top 6 with a score of 0.1560.
1. Introduction
In smart cities, smart trafﬁc systems use data and tech-
nology to help people and goods move faster and more ef-
ﬁciently. In fact, smart trafﬁc beneﬁts from insights derived
from data captured by sensors. Trafﬁc event retrieval is one
of the important tasks for intelligent trafﬁc system manage-
ment. In fact, natural language description offers another
useful way to specify vehicle track queries. As described in
a new track of AI City Challenge 2021, vehicle retrieval will
be based on single-camera tracks and corresponding natural
language descriptions of the targets. Figure 1 illustrates the
*The ﬁrst two authors share the equal contribution
†Corresponding author. Email: tmtriet@fit.hcmus.edu.vn
Video tracks
A black sedan turns left.
A black sedan stops.
Cadillac car makes a left 
turn onto the main street.
Input query
Query 
Analysis
Video 
Analysis
Retrieval
Rank list
✔
✔
✔
✔
❌
Figure 1. NLP-based trafﬁc event retrieval workﬂow in the AI City
Challenge 2021 Track 5.
trafﬁc event retrieval problem. As seen in the ﬁgure, only
the trafﬁc events related to the input queries are retrieved. In
this problem, the retrieval task’s performance will be evalu-
ated using standard metrics of retrieval tasks while consid-
ering ambiguity caused by similar vehicle types, colors, and
motion types.
In this paper, we propose a novel framework for vehicle
event retrieval from a natural-language-based speciﬁcation.
For each text query, we analyse the set of 3 descriptions
in natural language format to capture the requirements, in-
cluding the vehicle type, color, and motion actions. We
also group similar semantic terms into clusters to unify the
query speciﬁcation for better consistency, such as “red“ and
“marron“ should be considered in the same category. For
each video track, we create vehicle type and color classi-
ﬁers, propose a simple yet efﬁcient method to detect actions
Textual 
Attribute 
Extraction
Retrieval 
Model
Query
List of 
video 
tracks
Video 
encoded 
feature
Refinement 
process
Candidate 
tracks
Final 
results
Textual attributes 
(color, vehicle, 
action)
Visual attributes 
(color, vehicle, 
action)
Visual 
Attribute 
Extraction
Figure 2. The overview of our proposed method. The dark orange
cells denote the raw inputs and ﬁnal outputs of the system, while
the light ones indicate the intermediate results used in the follow-
ing stages. The other blue blocks named the four main processing
modules: textual/visual attribute extraction, retrieval model, and
reﬁnement process.
(“stop“, “go straight“, “turn left“, “turn right“). Finally,
we utilize both appearance and motion attributes of a vehi-
cle and adapt the COOT [6] model to evaluate the semantic
relationship between a query and a video track.
We apply our proposed method on the dataset of Track 5
in AI City Challenge 2021. For testing in this track, there
are 530 video tracks, each contains the sequence of bound-
ing boxes of a vehicle of interest, and 530 sets of text de-
scriptions. The objective in this track is to return a rank
list of video tracks corresponding to each text query. Our
method gets promising results in Track 5 of AI City Chal-
lenge 2021. In particular, we achieved rank 6 with a score
of 0.1560.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec-
tion 2, we brieﬂy review related work. We then present our
solutions for trafﬁc event retrieval in Section 3. Experimen-
tal results on Track 5 of AI City Challenge 2021 are then re-
ported and discussed in Section 4. Finally, Section 5 draws
the conclusion.
2. Related Work
AI City Challenge [10] addressed different problems in
a smart trafﬁc management system. Various methods have
been proposed to solve many practical problems in smart
trafﬁc system, such as vehicle counting [25, 28, 13], ve-
locity estimation[18, 20, 14], behavior analysis, vehicle re-
identiﬁcation [26, 4, 9], anomaly detection [16, 3, 21], etc.
In the latest edition, the problem of natural language-based
vehicle track retrieval is introduced. There have been nu-
merous related works in literature.
Representation learning has a large range of applications
in cross-modal context matching, especially between visual
and textual information. It learns to embed the vision and
language information into the same latent space for similar-
First SRL 
process
Text data
Statistics of vehicle 
attributes
Collections and groups 
of vehicle attributes
Second SRL
process
Exact SRL result
Figure 3. The overview of process ﬂow on text branch
ity measure. The image-text matching problem is related
to various problems such as Image Captioning [27, 24],
Image-Text retrieval [23], and Visual Question Answer-
ing [1], to name a few. In other scenarios, when one static
image cannot provide the full meaning of a concept, which
needs the spatio-temporal information from a sequence of
images as a video, the video-text matching takes place. Tran
et al. [19] obtained deep learned features from C3D. Mean-
while, Nguyen et al. [11, 12] extracted the denser trajec-
tories of interest points in 3D volume and applied action
fusion.
The COOT framework [6] concentrates on modeling the
long-range video-text relationship, in which the video data
is a set of consecutive trimmed video clips displaying a spe-
ciﬁc event. The text data is a paragraph of multiple sen-
tences describing those events in the respective order. The
authors propose a hierarchical architecture, including local
and global encoding modules. In each branch, the local
modules play the role of encoding the context information
from those trimmed segments. The global module encodes
the entire paragraph or video to capture the global context
of the event. Finally, all those multi-level features is ag-
gregated to produce the ﬁnal embedding representation for
each branch. By efﬁciently utilizing the transformer archi-
tecture integrated with the common attention mechanism
[22], the model can capture adequate contents from many
parts of the long-range input and perform state-of-the-art
on the retrieval task.
3. Proposed Method
3.1. Method Overview
Our proposed method contains four main parts. With
a query and list of video tracks, our method ﬁrst extracts
essential features in both branches. In the ﬁrst step, not
only the textual extraction (module 3.2) aims to localize and
obtain the potential attributes of each target vehicle in the
given descriptions, but the visual extraction (module 3.3)
also provides the same attributes and representation feature
based on the vehicle visual context and movement trajec-
normal 
action
(drive, go, 
run, etc.)
turn
(turn, curve, 
bare, etc.)
stop
(stop, wait, 
park, etc.)
sedan
(sedan, 
coupe, etc.)
SUV
(SUV, wagon, 
MPV, 
hatchback, 
minivan, 
crossover, etc.)
van
truck
(semi-trailer-truck, 
cement-truck, 
cargo-truck, etc.)
gray
(gray, 
silver)
beige
(beige, gold, 
tan, yellow, 
etc.)
red
(maroon, 
red)
blue
black
purple
green
white
pickup
jeep
Figure 4. How we categorize three attribute types. The black, or-
ange, and blue shapes show the group of color, action, and vehicle
type, respectively.
tory. Then we utilize a representation learning-based re-
trieval model 3.4 to produce a list of candidate tracks for
each query. The ﬁnal result is re-ranked by a reﬁnement
block 3.5, using the extracted attributes from previous steps.
The overview of our method is explained in Figure 2.
3.2. Text Query Semantic Extraction
On such retrieval problems, the text data usually contains
rich information about the objects and their activities. Also,
this dataset mainly focuses on trafﬁc and vehicle, narrow-
ing the scope of vocabularies but still providing essential
information. Therefore, besides feeding the text query into
the next-step model, we employ a method to obtain speciﬁc
query keywords to construct a special collection of vehicle
attributes. This task helps us label each query on some cat-
egories, useful for later tasks about classiﬁcation, detector,
or re-ranking.
It should be noticed that most of the queries are struc-
tured as follow:
Vehicle + Action + Optional object(s) + Other infor-
mation.
That is the reason we consider English PropBank Se-
mantic Role Labeling (SRL), via the method proposed in
[15], as a possibly efﬁcient means to parse verb and noun
phrases. A two-phase ﬂow describing the text-branch pro-
cess is shown in Figure 3.
First, to analyze the data, we take an SRL extraction on
raw data to make statistics on the vehicle’s attributes. This
process helps us conﬁrm that it is necessary to deﬁne poten-
tial values about the vehicle types, actions, colors. After ﬁl-
tering the top most frequent and suitable words on each at-
tribute and observing the relation among queries in a track,
we create certain groups for three types of the attribute. Fig-
ure 4 illustrates the result of categorizing.
The second phase of this ﬂow described the heuristic
method we build to extract each query on mentioned cat-
egories exactly. There are two main stages in this phase,
Spelling 
correction
Word 
stemming
Extraction
Query
Result
SRL 
prediction
Noun phrase 
extraction
Is 
success?
Adding to 
result
Preprocessing
Is 
success?
Cleaned
query
Yes
No
Yes
Figure 5. An overview of the heuristic method to extract a query
into SRL parts.
Query
A whit semi truck
drives
straight up a hill
behind so many cars
Preprocessed 
query
a white semi-trailer-truck drove straight up a hill behind so many cars
Extraction result
subject
action
argm_dir
argm_loc
Subject 
extraction
subject: semi-trailer-truck
color: white
Figure 6. An example of a query transformed and extracted
through 2 stages of the heuristics method.
shown in Figure 5:
1. Preprocessing stage:
To make the SRL predictor work efﬁciently, the query
needs to be corrected if it has wrong spelling.
We
use the Levenshtein distance metric to convert a tar-
get word to a source word in our deﬁned vocabulary
collection of vehicle attributes. To avoid the false con-
vert, we set the condition of correcting a distance equal
to 1 between the target word and the source word.
We also add a rule to skip certain words which are
not misspelled but have a distance of 1. For exam-
ple, in the preprocessed query provided in Figure 6,
we have changed the wrong word “whit” to “white”
but kept the word “so” although it has the Leven-
shtein distance equal to 1 with the word “go”. After
this step, there is another collection containing rules
to convert inconsistent words or phrases into a com-
mon one and/or verbs that are easily confused with
nouns into past tense. As seen in the mentioned ex-
ample, we have also made the word “semi truck” (in
the same group with “semi-truck”, “tractor-trailer”)
become “semi-trailer-truck”, and the word “drives”
become “drove”. When ﬁnishing this stage, all of the
essential terms related to trafﬁc have been clear enough
to be extracted.
2. Extraction stage:
For each query, a predictor toolkit is used to obtain
parts of the SRL result. If the query is a complete
sentence, the function will extract successfully. Oth-
erwise, the query can be a noun phrase, and hence we
A white pickup truck runs down the street and turns left.
A white truck turns left.
A white SUV runs down the street followed by another black vehicle.
Frame 0th
Frame 18th
Frame 53rd
Frame 56th
A light yellow sedan going straight down the street with cars parking on the side.
A white sedan runs down the street with a silver vehicle passing by on the opposite direction.
An off-white car drives straight.
Frame 0th
Frame 15th
Frame 38rd
Frame 46th
Figure 7. Examples of ambiguous color/vehicle type labelling af-
fected by different viewpoints or external inﬂuences.
must use another method to handle this. In this situa-
tion, we will collect the result if we can ﬁnd the subject
and conﬁrm it as a vehicle type (i.e., a white truck, a
typical jeep), or it will be skipped (i.e., straight on the
main road, light short to the right).
3.3. Video Track Attribute Extraction
3.3.1
Vehicle/Color Classiﬁer
We build two modules, color encoder Ecol and vehicle en-
coder Eveh, with EfﬁcientNet [17] backbone to learn the
visual features representation for each target vehicle from
the video tracks. The encoders are trained as a classiﬁca-
tion task, which takes the target bounding boxes as input
and learns to classify them to the most reasonable groups
extracted from the previous query processing step 3.2.
However, in practice, the vehicle’s visual attributes are
not consistent between different viewpoints or could be
easily affected by external conditions (sunlight, dust), as
pointed in Figure 7. Also, there are some cases the vehi-
cle itself has multi-color, as shown in Figure 8. Therefore,
instead of labeling each main subject with a speciﬁc class,
we gather all textual attributes provided by the three cap-
tions as the multi-label ground-truth for each target. We
train the classiﬁers with multi-label approaches, where a
sigmoid function replaces the softmax activation in the clas-
siﬁcation layer. About the training images, for a given track
with T frames and T temporal bounding boxes, we sample
four boxes: [B0, BT/3, B2T/3, BT −1] to handle this prob-
lem.
3.3.2
Action Detector
From the description of a query, we can obtain multiple ac-
tions of a vehicle of interest, such as “go straight”, “stop”,
“turn right”, “turn left”, and so forth. In this section, we
present our method to detect two important action types:
stop and turn (left or right). Our method analyzes the tra-
jectory of a vehicle, a sequence of points p1, p2, ..., pn,
Frame 0th
Frame 19th
Frame 38th
Frame 57th
A white sedan merged to the left lane.
Purple sedan turn right to avoid bicycle.
It switches line to pass a bicycle.
A white pickup truck runs down the street.
A red SUV turns left after red sedan passed.
A red SUV makes an illegal left turn.
Frame 18th
Frame 24th
Frame 30th
Frame 36th
Figure 8. Examples of multi-color vehicles.
where pi is the center of the vehicle’s bounding box at the
ith frame.
1. Stop detector:
To detect a stop event, we ﬁrst calculate a sequence
of motion speed vi = dist(pi+k, pi) where dist is the
Euclidean distance and k = 5 in our implementation.
To remove noise of a temporary slow down in speed,
we apply a moving average ﬁlter with the window size
delta = 10 on the sequence of vi. We consider a stop
event occurs when the speed is signiﬁcant small, com-
paring to the average speed. We choose a simple yet
efﬁcient formula to detect a stop event if the motion
speed vi < α × mean{vi} where α = 0.15.
2. Turn detector:
We use algebraic area to classify the motion direc-
tion of a vehicle’s trajectory into 3 categories: “go
straight”, “turn right”, and “turn left”.
Let A be
the algebraic area corresponding to the polygon with
n vertices p1, p2, ..., pn.
A =
Pn
i=3 −−−−→
p1pi−1 × −−→
p1pi
2
The vehicle is going in a straight line if |A| is small. If
|A| is considerably large, the vehicle is like to turn left
or right. The vehicle turns left when A > 0, and turns
right when A < 0. We observe that the error due to
possible distortion in cameras is directly proportional
to the square value of the distance between the start and
end points in the trajectory |p1pn|2. We deﬁne B =
A/|p1pn|2. As illustrated in Figure 9, B is the (signed)
ratio between the area of the red polygon and the blue
square. If |B| is greater than a certain threshold ǫ, we
conclude that the vehicle turns (left or right), and goes
straight otherwise.
3.4. Retrieval Method
We apply the idea from the state-of-the-art COOT model
with some modiﬁcation for the CityFlow-NL benchmark
Figure 9. Illustration for using algebraic area to evaluate the direc-
tion of a motion trajectory.
[5]. The original COOT aims to tackle the long-range tem-
poral problem in video-text representation learning. It in-
puts the text descriptions which are paragraphs with mul-
tiple sentences, and the long videos which are constructed
from many trimmed clips. The model focuses on learning
the mapping between local-level context (clip/sentence),
global-level context (video/paragraph), and the relation-
ship between them via a hierarchical architecture. In sum-
mary, the video and the paragraph are ﬁrst encoded in
words/frames level by pretrained models, then fed for-
ward the embedding modules to produce the corresponding
video/paragraph embedding vectors.
In the CityFlow-NL dataset, each query contains three dif-
ferent captions in text and may provide information from
various aspects for a speciﬁc track. And the video is not
segmented as the COOT setting. Therefore, in this work,
we only utilize the global-level branch of the COOT frame-
work. Our modiﬁcation is shown in Figure 10.
In text branch, we can naively model the paragraph input
in many different ways by choosing one from the combina-
tions of three different sentences for each query. However,
we observe that the three descriptions can contain mutual
meaning. For instance, the later caption may have reference
to the former one.
• Yellow car keeps straight.
• A yellow coupe keeps straight before a diverging road.
• There was a black pickup behind the vehicle.
Thus, in the encoding step, we aim to concatenate those de-
scriptions as a whole paragraph, which provides the com-
plete information for a speciﬁc target track. For a query
qi = [si=1:3], the preparing process is setup as follow:
1. Splitting each sentence si into a list of tokens.
2. Encoding each token to a dword-dimension vector.
Consequently, the sentence vector is therefore a list of
word vectors.
3. Concatenating the three-sentence vectors as a ﬁnal rep-
resentation vquery for the query.
Figure 10. Comparison between the original COOT model and our
modiﬁcation for the CityFlow-NL benchmark. We do not utilize
the clip/sentence-level encoding process, which is denoted as the
blurred components. The pair of paragraph and video track en-
coded feature are fed into the corresponding encoder block to ob-
tain the ﬁnal embedding.
In video branch, the video track also contains the local
information of the target vehicle, which is usually the main
subject and provides potential visual attributes described in
the given query. For that reason, different from the orig-
inal COOT method, we also include the target’s attribute
features in the video encoding vector.
In the COOT framework, given a video V with F
frames, the video encoding is constructed by concatenat-
ing all F frame-level feature dF -dimension vectors, which
are extracted by pretrained backbones (ResNet-152 [8],
ResNext101 [7], etc.).
For each frame, the feature vec-
tors, enriched by deep neural networks pretrained on large
benchmark datasets, contain helpful global information but
lack local ones, which could be the target vehicles we need
to focus on in the CityFlow-NL setup. From this point of
view, we modify the frame-level encoded vectors with the
following strategy. Let vframe denotes the feature vector
for each frames in a video track, vframe ∈Rdf . We deﬁne
this feature as a combination of three sources:
1. Global context information (vglobal). The elements
that play the same role as the original COOT frame-
work’s extracted visual features, aim to provide gen-
eral information of a speciﬁc video frame.
2. Attributes representation (vveh). The compact fea-
ture produced by the attribute classiﬁers (section 3.3.1)
provides the important details of the target subject that
the model needs to focus on during the retrieval pro-
cess.
3. Target vehicle location (vloc). The relative location
and size of the target in a given frame provide the main
subject’s movement trajectory information.
For the vglobal, we apply the same approach as in COOT,
which is the global feature extracted by the ResNet-152
pretrained on ImageNet [8]. The vveh is constructed as
a concatenation of color and vehicle-type encoded vectors
(vveh−col, vveh−type) provided by the corresponding en-
coders Ecol and Eveh, details in 3.3.1.
vveh = concat(vveh−col, vveh−type)
And the vehicle location component is constructed from the
bounding box coordinates at a given frame.
vloc = [x/W, y/H, w/W, h/H]
where (x, y, w, h) denotes the box top-left coordinate,
width, height. (W, H) are respectively the width, height
of the video frame.
In total, the frame encoded feature is modelled as:
vframe = concat(vglobal, vveh, vloc)
which contains both global context and target’s descriptive
informations.
And the ﬁnal encoding for each F-length
video track vtrack is the combination of F frame-level fea-
tures, resulting in F × df-dimension vector.
The track/query representation feature (vtrack, vquery)
is then fed forward through the corresponding encoding
blocks to obtain the ﬁnal embedding vectors. We then train
the model with the same strategy as the original COOT
method (Figure 10).
3.5. Ranking and Reﬁning
In the retrieval method, we have encoded the visual fea-
ture using information from color, vehicle types, and lo-
cation of the target object. However, we did not exploit
the motion features of the tracked objects. Therefore, we
build another module to further reﬁne the previously ob-
tained results. In particular, this module focuses on the as-
sessment of similar motion extracted from the query and the
video track. The annotation action results of the text are re-
trieved from the second phase of SRL extraction (section
3.2). Meanwhile, the annotation results of the video action
are obtained from the stop and turn detector (section 3.3.2).
The retrieval results are reﬁned with the following priori-
ties, i.e., motion, color, and vehicle types. The details of the
reﬁnement process are as follows:
1. Action reﬁnement. The module takes a query, a list
of candidate tracks as input and outputs several tracks
placed in multi-level priority groups. The detail of this
process is demonstrated in Figure 11.
2. Vehicle/Color reﬁnement. In each group, we then sort
the tracks with regards to the similarity between their
color, vehicle types, and the input query’s extracted at-
tributes.
The ﬁnal result is the combination of these ﬁltered groups
from the highest to the lowest priority order.
Query 
action
Track 
action
Track 
action
Track 
action
Query says 
stop and turn
Query says 
stop or turn
Query not mention
stop and turn
second
priority
first
priority
second
priority
Track agrees 
with query
Otherwise
Track says 
stop and turn
Track says 
stop or turn
Otherwise
Track agrees 
with query
Otherwise
first
priority
first
priority
second
priority
third
priority
Figure 11. The action reﬁnement module. Query action denotes
the motion annotation obtained from the query extractor, while
track action represents the motion annotation achieved by the stop
and turn detector.
4. Experiments
In this section we discuss our experimental setup, con-
ﬁguration and pretrained models used in each step. We also
present our submission results of many different versions as
a ablation experiment to evaluate the performance of each
processing modules and details about our best submission
at the AI City Challenge Track 5 (Table 2).
4.1. Experimental setup
1. Vehicle/Color classiﬁer. We adopt EfﬁcientNet-b5 as
the backbone and train it with multi-label classiﬁcation
strategy. The number of label categories contains six
groups of vehicles and eight groups of color, as shown
in Figure 4.
2. Action detector. In the implementation, we use alge-
braic area of the polygon formed by n points in the mo-
tion trajectory of a tracked vehicle to classify the mo-
tion into “go straight”, “turn right”, and “turn left”.
3. Video encoding.
For the global context , we use
ResNet152 [8] pretrained on ImageNet [8] to extract
2048-d feature vector for each frame.
Vehicle and
color feature vector is extracted from the classiﬁer
backbones with 2048 dimensions also.
4. Text encoding. Following the same approach of the
COOT model, paragraphs are encoded by a pretrained
BERT-based model [2] and extract the last 2 layers
to construct the ﬁnal representation for each token as
1536-d features.
5. Evaluation metrics.
In addition to MRR, R@5,
R@10 metrics as evaluated in the leaderboard, we also
consider R@1, Mean Rank and Median Rank score to
choose the best version when training.
A black sedan turns left.
A black sedan stops.
Cadillac car makes a left turn onto the main street.
Input query
V1
COOT
V2
COOT
refine col-veh
V4
COOT
refine col-veh-act
Top-3 output result
Stop ✔
Stop ✔
Stop ✔
Stop ✔
Stop ❌
Stop ❌
Stop ❌
Stop ❌
Stop ❌
Figure 12. Visualization of an input query and the top-3 result of
each version. We draw a white curve on each represented photo to
demonstrate the bounding-boxed vehicle’s trajectory through the
video. The green border line indicates the track video satisﬁes
the turn motion condition of the query, while the red one does
the opposite. We also add a stop tag into each photo to denotes
whether the target vehicle has stop motion.
Table 1. Ablation experiment on different conﬁguration strategies
No.
Conﬁguration
MRR
R@5
R@10
V1
COOT
0.1010
0.1453
0.1869
V2
COOT + reﬁne col-veh
0.1433
0.2000
0.3226
V3
COOT + reﬁne col-veh w/o loc
0.1368
0.2113
0.3170
V4
COOT + reﬁne col-veh-act
0.1560
0.2321
0.3302
4.2. Experimental result
4.2.1
Ablation experiment
In this session, we present several conﬁguration versions
submitted to the evaluation system and analyze different
modules’ effects. Visualization results of these versions are
illustrated in Figure 12 and their scoring results are shown
in Table 1. In V1, we use the raw COOT model with default
conﬁgurations with the feature encoding strategy discussed
in 3.4 and without any re-ranking methods. Then we reﬁne
the V1 result on color and vehicle type attribute (mention
in 3.5) to obtain V2. In V3, we also try to eliminate the
location information from the frame-level encoding process
to evaluate its effect on the ﬁnal result. Based on the previ-
ous experiments’ performance, we choose the best retrieval
model with the highest validation score and apply all the
reﬁnement methods to produce the ﬁnal version, V4.
4.2.2
Result analysis
According to the scoring results (Table 1 and Figure 12),
we observe that the raw COOT model can pay attention to
the right vehicle type and color as the target object in the
query during the retrieval process. As shown on the ﬁrst
line of the visualization results in Figure 12, the V1 version
has returned tracks matching correctly those attributes.
However, the retrieval model still lacks local features and
does not focus on the target vehicle. Thus the color/vehicle-
Table 2. Ranking result on Track 5
Rank
Team ID
Team Name
Score
1
132
Alibaba-UTS
0.1869
2
17
TimeLab
0.1613
3
36
SBUK
0.1594
4
20
SNLP
0.1571
5
147
HUST
0.1564
6
13
HCMUS
0.1560
7
53
VCA
0.1548
8
71
aiem2021
0.1364
9
87
Enablers
0.1314
10
6
Modulabs
0.1195
11
51
AIPERT
0.1078
12
11
CE UIT
0.0852
13
30
Fiberhome-YYDS
0.0850
14
82
CMU INF
0.0184
15
146
UFL nlp
0.0172
type reﬁnement module (version V2) helps boost those re-
lated tracks to higher ranks and obtain a higher scoring re-
sult in V2.
In version V3, without the location feature,
the model performance reduces signiﬁcantly. Thus we con-
clude that the motivation information plays an essential role
in the retrieval process. In addition, the visualization of V1
and V2 in Figure 12 indicates the current retrieval model’s
lack of action-understanding performance. The special ac-
tion types as “stop” and “turn” of each track are not con-
sidered to gain optimal results. Thus, we apply both three
ﬁltering methods as an attribute-based re-ranking strategy
(discussed in 3.5) to reﬁne retrieval results and re-produce
the prediction lists (version V4). The visualization result of
V4 in Figure 12 shows the effect of our reﬁnement methods,
where the top tracks have the same color, vehicle type, and
action described in the query. The V4 version is our best
result for Track 5 of AI City Challenge 2021, which gains
a 0.156 MRR score, 0.2321, and 0.3302 for R@5, R@10
respectively.
5. Conclusion
In this paper, we propose a novel framework for trafﬁc
event retrieval. Through experiments, our proposed frame-
work obtains competitive results with the rank 6 in Track
5 of in AI City Challenge. In our method, we utilize both
appearance and motion information of a vehicle to match
the appropriateness of a video track with a given query in
text. We propose a modiﬁed solution based on COOT model
for CityFlow-NL benchmark. Currently, we continue to en-
hance our solution to further exploit spatial and temporal
relationship for better understanding video tracks.
Acknowledgements
This research is supported by Vingroup Innovation Foun-
dation (VINIF) in project code VINIF.2019.DA19 and Na-
tional Science Foundation (NSF) under Grant No. 2025234.
References
[1] S. Antol, A. Agrawal, J. Lu, M. Mitchell, D. Batra, C. L.
Zitnick, and D. Parikh. VQA: visual question answering. In
IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision, pages
2425–2433, 2015.
[2] J. Devlin, M.-W. Chang, K. Lee, and K. Toutanova. Bert:
Pre-training of deep bidirectional transformers for language
understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805, 2018.
[3] K. Doshi and Y. Yilmaz. Fast unsupervised anomaly detec-
tion in trafﬁc videos. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Con-
ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Work-
shops, pages 624–625, 2020.
[4] V. Eckstein, A. Schumann, and A. Specker. Large scale ve-
hicle re-identiﬁcation by knowledge transfer from simulated
data and temporal attention. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
Workshops, pages 616–617, 2020.
[5] Q. Feng, V. Ablavsky, and S. Sclaroff. Cityﬂow-nl: Track-
ing and retrieval of vehicles at city scaleby natural language
descriptions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.04741, 2021.
[6] S. Ging, M. Zolfaghari, H. Pirsiavash, and T. Brox. Coot:
Cooperative hierarchical transformer for video-text represen-
tation learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2011.00597, 2020.
[7] K. Hara, H. Kataoka, and Y. Satoh.
Can spatiotemporal
3d cnns retrace the history of 2d cnns and imagenet?
In
IEEE conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recogni-
tion, pages 6546–6555, 2018.
[8] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun. Deep residual learn-
ing for image recognition. In IEEE conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition, pages 770–778, 2016.
[9] S. He, H. Luo, W. Chen, M. Zhang, Y. Zhang, F. Wang, H. Li,
and W. Jiang. Multi-domain learning and identity mining for
vehicle re-identiﬁcation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
Workshops, pages 582–583, 2020.
[10] M. Naphade, S. Wang, D. C. Anastasiu, Z. Tang, M.-C.
Chang, X. Yang, L. Zheng, A. Sharma, R. Chellappa, and
P. Chakraborty. The 4th ai city challenge. In IEEE CVPR
Workshops, page 2665–2674, June 2020.
[11] T. V. Nguyen, J. Feng, and K. Nguyen. Denser trajectories
of anchor points for action recognition. In Proceedings of
International Conference on Ubiquitous Information Man-
agement and Communication, pages 1:1–1:8. ACM, 2018.
[12] T. V. Nguyen and B. Mirza.
Dual-layer kernel extreme
learning machine for action recognition. Neurocomputing,
260:123–130, 2017.
[13] A. Ospina and F. Torres. Countor: Count without bells and
whistles. In Proceedings of CVPR Workshops, pages 600–
601, 2020.
[14] H. Shi. Geometry-aware trafﬁc ﬂow analysis by detection
and tracking.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, pages
116–120, 2018.
[15] P. Shi and J. Lin.
Simple bert models for relation
extraction and semantic role labeling.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1904.05255, 2019.
[16] L. Shine et al. Fractional data distillation model for anomaly
detection in trafﬁc videos. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
Workshops, pages 606–607, 2020.
[17] M. Tan and Q. Le. Efﬁcientnet: Rethinking model scaling for
convolutional neural networks. In International Conference
on Machine Learning, pages 6105–6114. PMLR, 2019.
[18] Z. Tang, G. Wang, H. Xiao, A. Zheng, and J.-N. Hwang.
Single-camera and inter-camera vehicle tracking and 3d
speed estimation based on fusion of visual and semantic fea-
tures. In CVPR Workshops, pages 108–115, 2018.
[19] D. Tran, L. D. Bourdev, R. Fergus, L. Torresani, and
M. Paluri. Learning spatiotemporal features with 3d convo-
lutional networks. In International Conference on Computer
Vision, pages 4489–4497, 2015.
[20] M.-T. Tran, T. Dinh-Duy, T.-D. Truong, V. Ton-That, T.-N.
Do, Q.-A. Luong, T.-A. Nguyen, V.-T. Nguyen, and M. N.
Do. Trafﬁc ﬂow analysis with multiple adaptive vehicle de-
tectors and velocity estimation with landmark-based scan-
lines. In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition Workshops, pages 100–107, 2018.
[21] M.-T. Tran, T. V. Nguyen, T.-H. Hoang, T.-N. Le, K.-T.
Nguyen, D.-T. Dinh, T.-A. Nguyen, H.-D. Nguyen, X.-N.
Hoang, T.-T. Nguyen, et al. itask-intelligent trafﬁc analysis
software kit. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, pages
612–613, 2020.
[22] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones,
A. N. Gomez, L. Kaiser, and I. Polosukhin. Attention is all
you need. arXiv preprint arXiv:1706.03762, 2017.
[23] N. Vo, L. Jiang, C. Sun, K. Murphy, L. Li, L. Fei-Fei, and
J. Hays. Composing text and image for image retrieval - an
empirical odyssey. In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition, pages 6439–6448, 2019.
[24] V. Vo-Ho, Q. Luong, D. Nguyen, M. Tran, and M. Tran.
Personal diary generation from wearable cameras with con-
cept augmented image captioning and wide trail strategy. In
Proceedings of International Symposium on Information and
Communication Technology, pages 367–374. ACM, 2018.
[25] Z. Wang, B. Bai, Y. Xie, T. Xing, B. Zhong, Q. Zhou,
Y. Meng, B. Xu, Z. Song, P. Xu, et al. Robust and fast vehicle
turn-counts at intersections via an integrated solution from
detection, tracking and trajectory modeling. In IEEE/CVF
CVPR Workshops, pages 610–611, 2020.
[26] C.-W. Wu, C.-T. Liu, C.-E. Chiang, W.-C. Tu, and S.-Y.
Chien. Vehicle re-identiﬁcation with the space-time prior.
In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition workshops, pages 121–128, 2018.
[27] K. Xu, J. Ba, R. Kiros, K. Cho, A. C. Courville, R. Salakhut-
dinov, R. S. Zemel, and Y. Bengio. Show, attend and tell:
Neural image caption generation with visual attention. In
F. R. Bach and D. M. Blei, editors, Proceedings of Interna-
tional Conference on Machine Learning, volume 37, pages
2048–2057, 2015.
[28] L. Yu, Q. Feng, Y. Qian, W. Liu, and A. G. Hauptmann.
Zero-virus: Zero-shot vehicle route understanding system
for intelligent transportation. In IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Workshops, pages
594–595, 2020.
