1
VideoStory Embeddings Recognize Events
when Examples are Scarce
Amirhossein Habibian, Thomas Mensink, Cees G. M. Snoek
!
Abstract—This paper aims for event recognition when video examples
are scarce or even completely absent. The key in such a challenging
setting is a semantic video representation. Rather than building the
representation from individual attribute detectors and their annotations,
we propose to learn the entire representation from freely available
web videos and their descriptions using an embedding between video
features and term vectors. In our proposed embedding, which we call
VideoStory, the correlations between the terms are utilized to learn a
more effective representation by optimizing a joint objective balancing
descriptiveness and predictability. We show how learning the VideoStory
using a multimodal predictability loss, including appearance, motion
and audio features, results in a better predictable representation. We
also propose a variant of VideoStory to recognize an event in video
from just the important terms in a text query by introducing a term
sensitive descriptiveness loss. Our experiments on three challenging
collections of web videos from the NIST TRECVID Multimedia Event
Detection and Columbia Consumer Videos datasets demonstrate: i)
the advantages of VideoStory over representations using attributes or
alternative embeddings, ii) the beneﬁt of fusing video modalities by an
embedding over common strategies, iii) the complementarity of term
sensitive descriptiveness and multimodal predictability for event recog-
nition without examples. By it abilities to improve predictability upon any
underlying video feature while at the same time maximizing semantic
descriptiveness, VideoStory leads to state-of-the-art accuracy for both
few- and zero-example recognition of events in video.
1
INTRODUCTION
This paper strives to recognize events such as parking a
vehicle, ﬂash mob, and renovating a home in web video con-
tent. A problem of increasing importance in a world that
is swiftly adapting to video communication. The leading
computer vision and multimedia retrieval solutions for this
challenging problem, e.g., [32], [50], [65], [71], [78], all learn
to recognize events with the aid of many labeled video ex-
amples. However, as events become more and more speciﬁc,
we consider it unrealistic to assume that ample examples to
learn from will be commonly available. In practical use only
a handful of video examples, an event name and an event
deﬁnition may be present, such as the ones in Figure 1. We
aim for event recognition when video examples are scarce
or even completely absent.
Recognizing events from few or zero examples imposes
constraints on the video representation. End-to-end deep
learning of the video representation [27], [36], [68] demands
too many video examples. In [36] for example, Karpathy
et al. exploit more than 1 million YouTube videos and their
sport category labels to learn the video representation. Alter-
natively, Xu et al. [78] show how a very deep convolutional
neural network (CNN) [60] intended for image classiﬁcation
can be leveraged as representation for event recognition in
video. They use responses from intermediate layers of the
network to represent frames, which are aggregated over the
video using VLAD encoding [26]. When combined with a
linear SVM, excellent results on the leading NIST TRECVID
event detection benchmarks [54] are reported for scenarios
where many and few examples are available. The CNN
video representation outperforms more traditional video
encodings such as improved dense trajectories [71], [72] and
multimedia representations combining appearance, motion
and audio features [49], [52], [81]. However, both the learned
and engineered representations are incapable, nor intended
to, recognize events when examples are completely absent.
We propose a video representation that can leverage any
underlying feature, be it a CNN, improved dense trajectories
and/or audio features, while being capable of few-example
and zero-example event recognition with state-of-the-art ac-
curacy.
The key to few- and zero-example event recognition is
to add meaning to the video representation. Inspired by the
success in image classiﬁcation [16], [38], [55], many rely on
the prediction scores made by a set of pre-trained attribute
classiﬁers [4], [15], [21], [24], [31], [41]–[43], [45], [47], [79].
In [21] Habibian et al. study the properties of 1,346 attribute
classiﬁers trained from ImageNet [58] and TRECVID [54] for
representing and recognizing events in web video. Rather
than pre-specifying and manually labeling each individual
attribute in advance, the attributes can also be learned on
top of imagery and (weak) labels harvested from the web
[9], [11], [76], [80]. To assure visual predictability of the
discovered attribute detectors a common tactic is to leverage
part of the harvested data for validation [3]. However, a
drawback is that many attribute labels rarely occur. For
these infrequent labels only a limited number of positive
examples are available, which leads to a biased estimation
of their classiﬁcation reliability. As a consequence, many of
the discovered attributes might be overﬁtted to their small
training set and do not generalize well for new videos. We
also discover our semantic representation from the web,
but rather than selecting individual, and often unreliable,
classiﬁers per attribute label, we prefer to combine labels
automatically into more predictable attributes. By combin-
ing labels, more training examples are available and a more
arXiv:1511.02492v1  [cs.CV]  8 Nov 2015
2
Event Name: Winning a race without a vehicle
Deﬁnition: An individual (or more) succeeds in reaching a pre-deter-
mined destination before all other individuals, without vehicle as-
sistance or assistance of a horse or other animal. Racing generally
involves accomplishing a task in less time than other competitors.
The only type of racing considered relevant for the purposes of 
this event is the type where the task is traveling to a destination, 
completed by a person(s) without assistance of a vehicle or animal. 
Different types of races involve different types of human ...
Fig. 1. Video exemplars (top) and the textual deﬁnition (bottom) of the
event winning a race without a vehicle to illustrate one of the events
studied in this paper. Following the NIST TRECVID evaluation guide-
lines [54], the textual deﬁnition is for zero-example recognition, and the
ten provided video exemplars are for few-example recognition of the
event.
robust representation is obtained, without losing descriptive
ability.
In this paper we present a semantic representation learn-
ing algorithm for videos. Instead of relying on pre-speciﬁed
attribute labels, we learn the representation from freely
available web videos and their descriptions. To this end,
we propose an embedding between the video features and
their textual descriptions, which is learned by utilizing the
correlations between the words in the descriptions. We learn
the embedding by minimizing a joint objective function bal-
ancing the descriptiveness and predictability of the learned
video representation. Our proposed embedding is able to
leverage the multiple modalities which coexist in video to
learn a more reliable semantic representation. We call our
video representation VideoStory, since it strives to encode
the story of a video from its description.
A preliminary version of this article appeared as [20].
The current version adds i) representation learning for
multiple video modalities, ii) representation learning for
zero-example event recognition, iii) an additional TRECVID
video data set, revised experiments, and improved base-
lines, all using a recent video CNN feature [64], [78], and iv)
a new related work section, which will be discussed next.
2
RELATED WORK
In this section we focus on three directions of related work
we deem most closely connected to ours.
2.1
Representations for Event Recognition
Until recently most event recognition methods exploit video
representations based on densely extracted low-level vi-
sual features, such as HOG/HOF [39], or MBH [53], [72],
often combined with audio features like MFCC features
[34], [50], [65]. Currently, most methods extract frame-based
deep convolutional neural network (CNN) features [37],
[60], [64], using the responses from intermediate layers of
the CNN, which is pre-trained on ImageNet images [58],
see e.g.,
[9], [31], [48], [78], [81]. To obtain per video de-
scriptors the local/frame-based descriptors are aggregated
by their mean, by using the Fisher vector [59] or VLAD
encoding [26]. Despite the fact that these low-level based
video representations obtain state-of-the-art event recogni-
tion performance, they suffer from two drawbacks. First,
because of their high-dimensionality, training effective event
classiﬁers on these representations require a sufﬁcient num-
ber of training examples to prevent overﬁtting. Second, all
these representations are incapable of providing a semantic
interpretation of the video, which is crucial for zero-example
recognition.
Semantic Representations To obtain a semantic represen-
tation for videos, inspiration is obtained from describing
images with attributes [18], [38], and the video is rep-
resented by its attribute prediction scores. Creating the
training data for a set of task-speciﬁc attribute classiﬁers
manually involves lots of annotation effort, which is re-
strictive. Therefore, often public available datasets, such as
ImageNet [58] and TRECVID [54], are used to train the
attribute classiﬁers [21], [42], [45]. Although this overcomes
the need for (additional) manual annotation, the attributes
of these datasets are not necessarily descriptive for event
recognition.
To tune the attributes for the task at hand, several
works aim to automatically discover the attributes from
web images/videos and their textual descriptions [9], [11],
[76], [80]. For example Wu et al.
[76], start by selecting
the most frequent/relevant terms from a set of provided
event descriptions as attributes. Then, inspired by Berg et
al.
[3], they use Internet search engines like Google and
YouTube to gather positive examples. They assure visual
predictability of the discovered attribute detectors by cross-
validation. Similarly the work of Ye et al.
[9] relies on
the website WikiHow to obtain event descriptions, and
the visual predictability of the selected terms is ensured
by keeping only those terms which are present in existing
image classiﬁcation datasets. We refer to these methods as
term attributes since they all discover the attributes from the
terms in the descriptions.
Despite their effectiveness in obtaining training data,
term attributes suffer from three drawbacks. First, descrip-
tions have a long-tail distribution, therefore many terms
rarely occur and these will not have enough positive ex-
amples to train reliable visual classiﬁers. Second, term at-
tributes are selected mostly based on their visual prediction
accuracy, while for effective event recognition the selected
term attributes should also be descriptive for the target
events. Third, contextual information is lost, since term
attributes are learned independently by binary classiﬁers.
In this paper, we also learn the representation from
videos and their descriptions. But, rather than selecting
individual, and often unreliable, term attributes, we learn
the entire representation by automatically combining the
terms through embedding. In our proposed embedding, the
correlation between the terms are utilized to learn a more ef-
fective representation, which is predictable and descriptive.
3
2.2
Embedding Videos and their Descriptions
To learn correspondences between the visual domain and
textual descriptions different embedding methods have
been proposed for various purposes i.e., image annota-
tion [5], image classiﬁcation [2], [75], image captioning [35],
[70], video to text translation [14], [77] and cross-modal
retrieval [10], [17], [51].
Canonical correlation analysis (CCA) [23] is the classical
unsupervised manner to relate different modalities and can
be used for cross-modal retrieval [10]. CCA is the mul-
timodal generalization of PCA, and can be computed as
a generalized eigenvalue problem on the cross-covariance
matrix between the visual and textual features. It ﬁnds a
sequence of uncorrelated projections in which the cross-
correlation between the modalities is maximized. This is not
necessary suited to obtain a discriminative representation,
as is also validated by our experiments.
Probabilistic topic models, such as the seminal correspon-
dence latent Dirichlet allocation [5] and its extensions [13],
[57], learn correspondences by extracting a set of corre-
lated visual and textual topics from imagery and their
captions. Despite their effectiveness for captioning images
and videos [14], these methods are not designed to learn
a representation for the purpose of recognition. Moreover,
we note that by design these models are only applicable
on discrete features, and therefore they cannot leverage the
state-of-the-art video features used in our paper.
Embeddings for multi-class image classiﬁcation, such
as [2], [75] ﬁnd a low-dimensional subspace in which multi-
class classiﬁcation is performed. The subspace is found
jointly with the multi-class classiﬁer by minimizing a clas-
siﬁcation loss [75], or a zero-shot classiﬁcation loss [2]. In
contrast to this multi-class image classiﬁcation setting, we
are interested in ﬁnding descriptions modeled as a multi-
label video classiﬁcation problem. Moreover, we argue that
solely optimizing for classiﬁcation is not sufﬁcient to obtain
a predictable and descriptive video embedding.
Recently deep neural network architectures have been
proposed to learn multimodal correspondences for re-
trieval [17], [51] and captioning [35], [70]. Notably the mul-
timodal recurrent neural networks capture the sequential
ordering between the words in image captions and generate
more accurate image captions, compared to the probabilistic
topic models. However, training deep neural networks gen-
erally requires large amounts of training examples, while
our purpose is to learn from few- and zero-examples.
2.3
Zero-Example Event Recognition
In zero-example event recognition the goal is to recognize an
event, only based on a given textual event deﬁnition, without
using any video examples. The event deﬁnition is usually
provided in the form of a title and description, see Figure 1.
This zero-example setting is beyond the conventional zero-
shot image recognition of objects and scenes [16], [38], [56],
where often a training set of related classes is available as
well as pre-speciﬁed class-to-attribute mappings. Recently,
this challenging event recognition problem has attracted
a lot of attention because of its high practical value and
the corresponding TRECVID benchmark task initiated by
NIST [54]. The common approach for zero-example event
recognition is to represent videos and the event queries
using a semantic representation, and to rank all video rep-
resentations based on the cosine similarity with the event
query.
To represent the video mostly attributes and term-
attributes [9], [11], [29], [30], [76], [80] are exploited. Ex-
tensions include combining attributes using logical opera-
tors [19], using video-segments to detect attributes [46], and
adjustment of attribute scores using an ontology structure
[31]. In addition to attributes, automatic speech recognition
and optical character recognition have been considered to
enrich the semantic video representations [12], [31], [76].
To answer the event query, usually term matching be-
tween the semantic video representation and the event
deﬁnition is performed. The retrieval can be enriched by
using contextual information, such as word embeddings
and term co-occurrences [7], [80]. For the ﬁnal ranking,
the cosine similarity can be extended by pseudo relevance
feedback mechanisms, such as self-paced ranking [29]. This
has been used to improve the zero-shot event recognition
by re-ranking [7], [30], [31]. Our representation learning is
orthogonal to these efforts and can be joined with them to
further improve the event recognition performance.
3
VIDEOSTORY EMBEDDINGS
Our goal is to learn a representation function f : X →S,
which maps each low-level video representation xi ∈X
into the semantic representation si ∈S. The representa-
tion function is trained on a collection of videos and their
semantic descriptions, which we use in the form of binary
term vectors yi ∈Y.
In the common attribute learning approach for learning
the representation, the semantic representations are deﬁned
to be in the same space as the term vectors (S = Y).
However, in practice, the term vectors are intrinsically noisy
and highly sparse, which undermines their effectiveness as
labels to train the representation function. Therefore, we
propose to learn the semantic representation on a lower
dimensional projection of the term vectors, which are less
sparse and less noisy.
We formulate the representation function as an embed-
ding, coined as VideoStory, which is learned by balancing
two compelling forces in a joint optimization:
1)
Descriptiveness, to preserve the information encoded
in the video descriptions as much as possible, and
2)
Predictability, to ensure that the representation could
be effectively recognized from video content.
We ﬁrst introduce the VideoStory embedding based on
visual features (Section 3.1), then we generalize our embed-
ding to fuse any multimedia feature (Section 3.2), and ﬁnally
we gear the embedding towards zero-example recognition
(Section 3.3). We summarize our notation conventions in Ta-
ble 1.
3.1
Objective Function
We start from a dataset of videos, represented by video
features X, and their textual descriptions, represented by
binary term vectors Y , indicating which terms are present in
4
TABLE 1
Summary of the core notation used for VideoStory.
Notation
Description
N
Number of videos
M
Number of unique terms in descriptions
D
Dimensionality of low-level feature
J
Number of low-level features to fuse
k
Dimensionality of VideoStory embedding
X ∈RD×N
Matrix of low-level video features
Y ∈{0, 1}M×N
Matrix of binary term vectors
W ∈RD×k
VideoStory visual projection
A ∈RM×k
VideoStory textual projection
S ∈Rk×N
VideoStory embedding
H ∈RM×M
Diagonal matrix with per-term weights
xi, yi, si
The column representing the i-th video
each video description. Then, our VideoStory representation
is learned by minimizing:
LVS(A, W ) = min
S Ld(A, S) + Lp(S, W ),
(1)
where A is the textual projection matrix, W is the visual
projection matrix, and S is the VideoStory embedding. The
loss function Ld corresponds to our ﬁrst objective for learn-
ing a descriptive VideoStory, and the loss function Lp cor-
responds to our second objective for learning a predictable
VideoStory. The VideoStory embedding S interconnects the
two loss functions. To the best of our knowledge this joint
embedding is novel.
Descriptiveness. For the Ld function, we use a variant
of regularized Latent Semantic Indexing (LSI) [73]. This
objective minimizes the quadratic error between the original
video descriptions Y , and the reconstructed translations
obtained from A and S:
Ld(A, S) = 1
2
N
X
i=1
∥yi −Asi∥2
2 + λaΩ(A) + λsΨ(S),
(2)
where Ψ(·) and Ω(·) denote regularization functions, and
λa ≥0 and λs ≥0 are regularizer coefﬁcients. We use
the squared Frobenius norm for regularization, which is the
matrix variant of the ℓ2 regularizer, i.e., Ω(A) = 1
2∥A∥2
F =
1
2
P
i∥ai∥2
2 = 1
2
P
ij a2
ij, the sum of the squared matrix ele-
ments. Similarly for the VideoStory matrix Ψ(S) = 1
2∥S∥2
F.
The main difference with regularized Latent Semantic In-
dexing [73] is their ℓ1 regularizer, Ω(A) = P
i∥ai∥1, which
enforces sparsity in the textual projection A. However, with
our larger representation (typically we use a dimensionality
of k between 512 and 2,048 in our experiments compared
to only k = 20 in [73]) and fewer number of unique terms
(around 10K, compared to 100K), enforcing sparsity is not
necessary for good performance.
Note that other textual embeddings can be formulated
similar to Eq. (2), when appropriate regularization functions
Ω(·) and Ψ(·) are used. For example using Ω(·) = ∥·∥1
enforces sparsity [22], [44], [73], or in the extreme case that
A is constrained such that each column has a single non-
zero value, the objective becomes very close to methods that
select the best single term labels [3], and when A is enforced
to preserve the taxonomical term relations, the objective
resembles taxonomy embedding [69], [74].
Predictability. The Lp function measures the occurred loss
between the VideoStory S and the embedding of video
Algorithm 1: Pseudocode for learning the VideoStory
input : X, Y , k, η (step-size), m (max-epochs)
output : W and A
A, and S ←SVD decomposition of Y
W ←random (zero-mean)
for e ←1 to m do
for i ←1 to N do
Pick a random video-description pair (xt, yt)
Compute gradients w.r.t. A, W and st
Update parameters:
A
←A −ηt∇ALVS
see Eq. (4)
W
←W −ηt∇W LVS
see Eq. (5)
S
←st −ηt∇stLVS
see Eq. (6)
end
end
return: W and A
features using W . Since the VideoStory S is real valued,
as opposed to a binary or multi-class encoding, we can not
rely on standard classiﬁcation losses such as the hinge-loss
used in SVMs. Therefore, we deﬁne Lp as a regularized
regression, similar to ridge regression:
Lp(S, W ) = 1
2
N
X
i=1
∥si −W ⊤xi∥2
2 + λwΘ(W ),
(3)
where we use (again) the Frobenius norm for regularization
of the visual projection matrix W, Θ(W ) = 1
2∥W ∥2
F, and
λw is the regularization coefﬁcient.
Joint optimization. To handle large scale datasets and
state-of-the-art high-dimensional visual features, e.g., Fisher
vectors [59] on video features [72] or deep learned repre-
sentations [37], we employ a Stochastic Gradient Descent
(SGD) [6] optimization, summarized in Algorithm 1. The
number of passes over the datasets (epochs) and the step-
size η are hyper-parameters of SGD.
The VideoStory objective function, as given in Eq. (1),
is convex with respect to matrix A and W when the
embedding S is ﬁxed. In that case, the joint optimization is
decoupled into Eq. (2) and Eq. (3), which are both reduced
to a standard ridge regression for a ﬁxed S. Moreover, when
both A and W are ﬁxed, the objective in Eq. (1) is convex
w.r.t. S. Therefore we use standard SGD by computing
the gradients of a sample w.r.t. the current value of the
parameters, and we minimize S jointly with A and W .
Lets denote a randomly sampled video and description
pair at step t by (xt, yt), and let st denote the current
VideoStory embedding of sample t. The gradients of Eq. (1)
for this sample w.r.t. A, W and st are given by:
∇ALVS = −
 yt −Ast
s⊤
t + λaA,
(4)
∇W LVS = −xt
 st −W ⊤xt
⊤+ λwW , and
(5)
∇stLVS = −A⊤ yt −Ast
 +
 st −W ⊤xt
 + λsst.
(6)
The effect of joint learning the descriptiveness and the
predictability, becomes clear in Eq. (6), where both the
textual projection matrix A and visual projection matrix W
contribute to learning the VideoStory embedding S. This
embedding S is subsequently used to obtain the textual
projection A matrix, in Eq. (4), and the visual projection W
5
matrix, in Eq. (5). This leads to the VideoStory embedding,
which is both descriptive, by preserving the textual informa-
tion, and predictable, by minimizing the visual prediction
loss.
The parameters A, S, and W can be initialized by ran-
dom numbers with zero-mean. However, we experimentally
observed that initializing the A and S matrices by singular
value decomposition (SVD) of the term vectors Y , speeds
up the convergence.
After training the visual and textual projection matrices,
they are used to predict the VideoStory representation and
the term vector of each video. In the case that both a
video xi and description yi are given, we could obtain
the VideoStory representation by returning si from Eq. (1),
while keeping both A and W ﬁxed. However, in practice
most videos are not provided with a description. Therefore,
we use
si = W ⊤xi,
(7)
to predict our VideoStory representation from the low-level
video features xi. Moreover, using the predicted repre-
sentation si, the term vectors for each unseen video are
predicated as follows:
ˆyi = Asi,
(8)
where the terms with the highest values are most relevant
for this video, see the illustration in Figure 2
3.2
VideoStory Fusion
Videos are inherently multimodal. In general any video
contains appearance, motion, and audio cues and some-
times even textual information in the form of subtitles or
speech recognition scripts. Fusing the different modalities is
typically achieved by early-fusion, i.e., fusion at the level of
the representations, and late-fusion, i.e., fusion at the level
of prediction scores [61]. Both fusion strategies have been
shown to be effective for understanding complex events as
well, e.g., [34], [50], [67], [76]. We propose VideoStoryF, which
extends the VideoStory embedding by learning the semantic
representation from multiple modalities.
A straightforward approach to learn the multimodal
semantic representation is by fusing multiple VideoStory
embeddings, which are independently trained per modality.
More speciﬁcally, given the video descriptions and low-
level features from one modality, a VideoStory embedding
is trained as detailed in Algorithm 1. Then the learned
embeddings from all modalities are fused to obtain the
multimodal representation. Despite its simplicity, training
the VideoStory embeddings per modality is not optimal as
it ignores the interrelations between the various modalities
for learning the embeddings.
We aim for learning the embeddings jointly over all
the video modalities. Our intuition is that the semantic
representation is more effective if it is predictable from all
the modalities rather than from each individual modality.
For VideoStoryF we adjust the predictability loss, of Eq. (3),
to incorporate a weighted combination of the predictability
from all J modalities as follows:
LF
p (S, W) =
J
X
j=1
Lp(S, W j)
(9)
-0.05
0.05
VideoStory
Predictions (si)
0
1
water
jump
train
dog
puppy
play
dive
mud
ball
pit
beach
bull
swim
pool
Terms
Predictions (yi)
Textual projection (A)
Visual projection (W)
Fig. 2.
VideoStory prediction: From the low-level video features the
VideoStory representation and the term vector are predicted using the
visual projection matrix W and the textual projection matrix A.
where S is the multimodal VideoStory embedding, and
W
= {W j, j
= 1 . . . J} is a set of projection matri-
ces from the J modalities. Each feature projection matrix
W j ∈RDj×k projects the low-level feature xj
i ∈R1×Dj
extracted from the video into the VideoStory representation
si. Note that, instead of weighing each modality equally,
a term γj ≥0 could be used to weight the importance of
each modality, if sufﬁcient training examples are available
for cross-validation of these weighting parameters.
The objective function Eq. (1) is still convex with respect
to the parameters S, A, and W j when the other parameters
are ﬁxed. However, the gradient with respect to st, Eq. (6)
becomes:
∇stLVS =−A⊤ yt−Ast
+
 st−
X
j
W j⊤xj
t
+λsst. (10)
It can be seen that all the modalities are jointly contributing
to learn the multimodal VideoStory representations S.
After training the textual and feature projection matrices,
they are used to extract the multimodal VideoStory repre-
sentation. Each feature projection matrix W j predicts the
VideoStory representation based on its underlying modality
as follows:
sj
i = W j⊤xj
i.
(11)
The ﬁnal VideoStory representation is the concatenation of
the per modality embeddings: si =
s1
i , . . . , sJ
i

.
3.3
VideoStory for Zero-Example Event Recognition
The objective function for learning the VideoStory embed-
ding for few-example recognition is not necessarily optimal
for the zero-example setting. In Section 3.1, the descrip-
tiveness loss Ld is deﬁned as the overall error in recon-
structing all the terms from the VideoStory representations,
see Eq. (2). With this deﬁnition, the descriptiveness loss
is biased toward the more frequent terms, as minimizing
their reconstruction error leads to a higher decrease in the
6
overall error. Consequently, the terms which are infrequent
in the descriptions might be discarded, which degrades their
prediction accuracy from video features. This undermines
the effectiveness of our representation learning for zero-
example setting, where the accuracy in predicting the terms
from video is crucial.
We extend the VideoStory embedding to learn a video
representation, which is effective for zero-example event
recognition. Our extension, which we coin as VideoStory0,
minimizes the reconstruction error of the terms with respect
to their importance for describing the events, rather than
their frequency in the VideoStory train data. For this pur-
pose, we use a term sensitive descriptiveness loss, as follows:
Lts
d(A, S) = 1
2
N
X
i=1
∥H
1
2 (yi −Asi)∥2
2 + λaΩ(A) + λsΨ(S),
(12)
where H ∈RM×M is a diagonal matrix, denoting the
importance of each term for describing the events. By setting
a relatively high value for hjj for term j, its reconstruction
error is more penalized compared to the other terms. Hence
the term is expected to be more precisely reconstructed.
We determine the term importance matrix H by relying
on the presence/absance of terms in the textual event deﬁ-
nitions. Our assumption is that the terms, which are present
in event deﬁnitions are more important than the absent
terms. More precisely, we set each element of the importance
matrix hjj to α, if the term j is present, and 1−α if the term j
is absent in the event deﬁnitions. α is a balancing parameter
between 0 and 1, which should be higher than 0.5 to assign
more importance to the present terms. We empirically set
this parameter to 0.75 in all our zero-example event recog-
nition experiments. The importance matrix can be extracted
either for all events jointly or separately per event. We opt
for the latter in our experiments, i.e., extracting He based on
the description for event e, since in the literature the events
are usually treated separately.
After training the visual and textual projection matrices,
we follow the standard pipeline for zero-example event
recognition: First, each test video is represented by pre-
dicting its term vector ˆye
i based on
Eq. (8), using the
representation learned using He. Second, we translate the
textual event deﬁnition into the event query, denoted as
ye ∈RM, by matching the terms in the event deﬁnition with
the M unique terms in the VideoStory training data. Finally,
the ranking is obtained by measuring the similarity between
the video representations and the event query based on the
cosine similarity:
se(xi) =
ye⊤ˆye
i
||ye||
||ˆye
i ||.
(13)
Multimodal fusion. Finally, we can leverage the multi-
modal features for zero-example event recognition by com-
bining the multimodal predictability loss and the term sen-
sitive descriptiveness in a joint objective:
LVS(A, W ) = min
S Lts
d (A, S) + LF
p (S, W ).
(14)
We coin the learned video representation VideoStoryF
0 , since
it is learned on multiple video modalities for zero-example
event recognition.
Cute tabby cat gives her
dog a bath
Crazy guy doing insane
stunts on bike.
Two kids drive a 1/2 size
Jeep through mud
Kids sing happy birthday
to daddy
How to check tire Pressure
and inﬂate tires
Women try win a sack race
by alexis868
Fig. 3. Example videos and title captions from the VideoStory46K
dataset [20], which we use for VideoStory representation learning.
4
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
4.1
Datasets
We ﬁrst introduce the dataset used for learning the Video-
Story embeddings. Then, we detail the video datasets by
which we evaluate the event recognition experiments.
4.1.1
VideoStory Learning
In all the experiments, we learn the VideoStory embeddings
on the VideoStory46K [20] dataset. This collection encom-
pass 45,826 videos harvested from YouTube, with a total
length of 743 hours. Every video comes with a short title
caption provided by the user who has uploaded the video,
as shown in Figure 3. There are 19,159 unique terms in
the captions, most of them occurring infrequently. We ﬁlter
out the terms occurring only once as they generally are
misspelled terms, numbers, or noisy terms. It provides us
with 9,828 unique terms, which are used in our experiments.
4.1.2
Event Recognition Evaluation
We perform our event recognition experiments on the chal-
lenging TRECVID Multimedia Event Detection corpus [62]
and the Columbia Consumer Video collection [33]. These
corpora contain more than 42K videos in total, including
user generated web videos with a large variation in quality,
length and content.
TRECVID Multimedia Event Detection (MED) [62]. This
dataset is introduced by NIST as a benchmark for event
recognition. We perform our experiments on the two latest
releases of the dataset, referred to as MED 2013 and MED
2014. Each dataset includes videos from 20 complex events
categories, but with 10 events overlapping as listed in Ta-
ble 5. Each dataset includes three labeled video partitions:
Event Kit training, Background training, and test set MED
including 200, 5K, and 27K videos, respectively1. Apart from
the videos, a textual deﬁnition is provided per event, which
explicates the event as unformatted plain text, such as the
one shown in Figure 1.
1. There is also a PROGRESS set with 98K videos, but this partition
is for blind testing by NIST only.
7
We perform our few-example and zero-example event
recognition experiments by exactly following the 10Ex and
0Ex evaluation procedure outlined by the NIST TRECVID
event recognition task [54]. It means that, in the few-
example event recognition experiments, training data for
each event is composed of 10 positive videos from the Event
Kit training data along with about 5K negative videos from
the Background training data. The event recognition results
for each event classiﬁer are reported on the 27K videos from
test set MED. In our zero-example event recognition exper-
iments, we rely on the provided textual event deﬁnitions
to create an event query vector. Then the event recognition
performances are reported on the test set MED.
Columbia Consumer Video (CCV) [33]. This dataset con-
tains 9,317 user-generated videos from YouTube including
over 210 hours of videos in total. The dataset contains
ground truth annotations at video-level for 20 semantic
categories, i.e., wedding reception and music performance. We
use the standard partitioning of the dataset, but we use only
10 positive examples per event in the training data. These
10 are selected based on alphabetical order of the respective
video names, we ignore the remaining positive examples
in the train set. We report event recognition results on the
standard test partition. We denote our redeﬁnition of the
CCV dataset for few-example event recognition as CCV10.
4.2
Video Features
To cancel out accidental effects of the choice for the underly-
ing features, we consider the same set of appearance, motion
and audio features for all our experiments, the various
baselines, and our VideoStory variants. The appearance
features are used for all the experiments. The motion and
audio features are added for the experiments involving the
multimodal fusion.
Appearance. We adopt the video CNN representation [78]
as appearance features for event recognition, but found
the very deep network of [64] to perform slightly bet-
ter than [60]. For each video the frames are extracted by
uniformly sampling every two seconds. Then, the CNN
descriptors are extracted per frame as the 1K dimensional
responses from the last fully connected layer (pool5) of the
Google Inception network [64]. We train the network on the
15,293 ImageNet categories with more than 200 examples,
using the Caffe toolbox [28]. The ﬁnal video CNN features
are obtained by aggregating the frame descriptors over each
video by VLAD encoding [26] with a codebook size of 20,
resulting in a 20,480 dimensional vector.
Motion. We use the MBH descriptors along the motion
trajectories [72] as motion features. The extracted 288-
dimensional descriptors are reduced to 128 dimensions
using PCA and are then aggregated per video using a
Fisher vector [59], with 128 Gaussians resulting in a 32,768
dimensional vector. Each Fisher vector is power normalized,
with α = 0.2, as in [25].
Audio. We extract MFCCs descriptors [1] over a 10ms
window. The descriptors consist of 13 values, 30 coefﬁcients
and the log-energy, along with their derivatives and the
second derivatives. The MFCC descriptors are aggregated
by Fisher vectors using a Gaussian Mixture Model with 256
components, resulting in a 46,080 dimensional vector.
4.3
Implementation Details
We learn the VideoStory embeddings by using 75% of the
VideoStory46K dataset for training and 25% for validation
to set the hyper-parameters of our model (λw, λa, λs) and of
SGD (number of epochs, η). As the validation criterion we
rely on the objective function value, when using S = W ⊤X.
For few-example event recognition, the event classiﬁers
are trained as binary SVM with RBF kernels, which are
shown to be effective for semantic representations [47].
Following [78], [81] we set the SVM regularization and the
RBF kernel parameters by a default value of 1, as the train
set is not big enough to reliably estimate them by cross-
validation.
As evaluation criteria we follow the standard convention
in the literature [33], [54] by relying on the average precision
(AP) per event, and we report the mean average precision
(mAP) for overall accuracy.
5
EXPERIMENTS
5.1
VideoStory for Few-Shot Event Recognition
5.1.1
Effect of Embedding
We ﬁrst quantify the impact of embeddings for learning the
representation by comparing VideoStory with term attribute
baselines. The baselines learn the representations directly
from terms without any embedding. We evaluate all video
representations for few-example event recognition using a
dimensionality varying from 32 to 8,192.
1. Term attributes. This representation is extracted by fol-
lowing the tradition of predicting relevant individual terms
from the video descriptions e.g., [9], [11], [76], [80]. A linear
SVM classiﬁer is trained per term. The classiﬁers which have
the highest prediction accuracy, based on a 2-fold cross-
validation [3], are selected as term attributes.
2. Term attributes-f. This baseline is similar to the previous
baseline, but rather than using cross-validation to select the
term attributes it simply selects the terms with the highest
frequency in the descriptions.
Results. The results in Figure 4 demonstrate that Video-
Story embeddings outperform the term attribute and term
attribute-f baselines on all the three test sets.
Term attributes, which relies on the estimated reliability
of individual term classiﬁers, performs worst. This represen-
tation suffers from two drawbacks. First, many of the visual
terms are very speciﬁc and therefore incapable of character-
izing the events of interest i.e., necklace, suitcase, and
earring. Although these terms can be accurately predicted
from videos, they are incapable of providing a characteristic
representation for event recognition. Second, many of the
terms rarely occur in video descriptions. Hence, only a
limited number of positive examples are available to learn
the term classiﬁers, which leads to a biased estimation of
their reliability. Consequently, many of the discovered visual
terms overﬁt to their small training set and do not generalize
well for new videos.
The drawbacks of term attributes are relaxed by simply
relying on the most frequent terms. We observe the most
frequent terms usually refer to characteristic attributes of
events which are frequently used by humans when describ-
ing a video, i.e., car, girl, and kid. Moreover, because of
8
32
64
128
256
512
1024
2048
4096
8192
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Semantic Representation Dimensionality
mAP
MED 2013
 
 
32
64
128
256
512
1024
2048
4096
8192
0
5
10
15
20
25
Semantic Representation Dimensionality
mAP
MED 2014
32
64
128
256
512
1024
2048
4096
8192
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Semantic Representation Dimensionality
mAP
CCV10
Term attributes
Term attributes−f
VideoStory embedding
Fig. 4. Effect of embedding. The VideoStory embedding outperforms the term attribute and term attribute-f baselines, which are directly learned
from the terms without embedding.
their large number of positive examples, the trained visual
classiﬁers from the term attributes-f baseline are in general
more reliable.
The VideoStory embedding represents the terms in a
reduced-dimensional space, where correlated terms are usu-
ally combined together. Combining correlated terms leads
to less correlation between dimensions of the learned repre-
sentation. Moreover, as the positive examples for all corre-
lated terms are combined, it provides more positive video
examples to train visual classiﬁers, often leading to better
accuracy.
We also compare the learning time for VideoStory ver-
sus the term-attribute baselines on a CPU Intel Xeon E5-
2690@2.90GHZ with 256GB of memory. As Figure 5 shows,
learning the VideoStory embedding is more efﬁcient than
both baselines. The term attributes baseline is least efﬁcient
as it trains individual classiﬁers for all the 9,828 terms
within the collection, before selecting the most accurate
ones. Term attributes-f is more efﬁcient, as it only trains
the classiﬁers for the most frequent terms. Our proposed
VideoStory embedding has the fastest learning time as it
learns the visual embeddings for the combination of terms
rather than individual terms.
Besides its effectiveness for few-example event recogni-
tion, the VideoStory embedding also improves the represen-
tation learning time by reducing the term redundancies.
5.1.2
VideoStory vs Other Embeddings
We compare the effectiveness of our proposed VideoStory
embedding with two alternative embeddings:
1. CCA embedding. This baseline learns the textual and
visual projections by CCA [10], which maximizes the cross-
32
64
128
256
512
1024
2048
4096
8192
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Semantic Representation Dimensionality
Train time (core hours)
 
 
Term attributes
Term attributes−f
VideoStory embedding
Fig. 5. Effect of embedding on computation efﬁciency. Learning the
VideoStory embedding is more efﬁcient than the term attribute and term
attribute-f baselines, as it learns one classiﬁer per group of terms rather
than individual classiﬁers per term.
correlation between the video features and descriptions. We
experimentally observed that the embedding is even more
effective when we PCA-reduce the video features to a di-
mensionality of 1,024 before learning the CCA embedding.
2. Description embedding. Similar to the VideoStory, this
embedding is learned by minimizing the descriptiveness
and predictability losses, but in two disjoint steps: The
textual projection is ﬁrst learned based on the regularized
Latent Semantic Indexing [73], as in Eq. (2). Then the visual
projection is learned separately, by minimizing the error
for predicting the embedded descriptions from the video
features based on ridge regression, as in Eq. (3).
Results. The results in Figure 6 demonstrate that the Video-
Story embedding outperforms the CCA and the Description
embedding baselines on all the three test sets for a dimen-
sionality larger than 256.
We explain the gain over CCA by the fact that CCA
is a symmetric embedding, it learns both the textual and
visual projections in the same way. However, the textual
and visual features have different distributions and prop-
erties, which may require different objective functions to
learn their projections. This is achieved by our proposed
VideoStory embedding as it relies on two separate LSI and
ridge regression loss functions to learn the textual and visual
projections, respectively.
We explain the improvement over the Description em-
bedding by the fact that combining the terms based on
textual correlation only does not necessarily imply that the
corresponding video is visually correlated as well. As it
happens, the terms puppy and kid have a high correlation
in the descriptions but are visually dissimilar. Combining
these two terms together, as is done by Description embed-
ding, undermines the accuracy of the classiﬁers predicting
them from videos. In contrast, in a VideoStory the correlated
terms are combined only if their combination improves
their classiﬁer prediction. It prevents the combination of
correlated terms which are visually dissimilar.
From now on we use a ﬁxed 2,048 dimensional Video-
Story representation, which is optimal based on Figure 4.
5.1.3
VideoStory vs other Representations
We evaluate the VideoStory by comparing it with state-of-
the-art video representations for few-example event recog-
nition:
1. Low-Level. In this baseline, the event classiﬁers are
trained directly on the low-level video representations,
without extracting a semantic representation. We rely on the
9
32
64
128
256
512
1024
2048
4096
8192
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Semantic Representation Dimensionality
mAP
MED 2013
 
 
32
64
128
256
512
1024
2048
4096
8192
0
5
10
15
20
25
Semantic Representation Dimensionality
mAP
MED 2014
32
64
128
256
512
1024
2048
4096
8192
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
Semantic Representation Dimensionality
mAP
CCV10
Description embedding
CCA embedding
VideoStory embedding
Fig. 6. VideoStory vs Other Embeddings. VideoStory embedding outperforms the CCA and the Description embedding baselines on all three test
sets. The Description embedding is the closest competitor, but it suffers from embedding correlated terms which are visually dissimilar. CCA, uses
the same objective function to learn the visual and textual embeddings, which is suboptimal due to intrinsic differences between the visual and
textual features.
TABLE 2
VideoStory vs other Representations for few-example event
recognition. Our proposed VideoStory outperforms the alternatives on
all three test sets.
Low-Level
Attributes
VideoStory
MED 2013
28.1
22.5
32.4
MED 2014
21.8
17.2
24.2
CCV10
50.0
48.8
54.8
video CNN features of [78], based on our implementation as
detailed in Section 4.2.
2. Attributes. This representation is obtained by adopting
the public ImageNet dataset as the source for training
attribute classiﬁers as proposed in [21]. However, instead
of training SVM classiﬁers on bag-of-words encoding of
color SIFT descriptors [21], we upgrade the attributes by
training a deep CNN with Google Inception architecture on
the 15,293 ImageNet categories as detailed in Section 4.2.
Results. Table 2 shows that VideoStory outperforms the
state-of-the-art attributes and low-level video representa-
tions on all three test sets.
By comparing the VideoStory and the attribute repre-
sentation we observe a higher event recognition accuracy
of 32.4 vs 22.5 for the MED 2013, 17.2 vs 21.8 for the
MED 2014, and 54.8 vs 48.8 for the CCV10 test set. We
explain it by the fact that attribute baseline relies on the
ImageNet categories as attributes. However, many of these
pre-speciﬁed categories are not semantically relevant for
the events of interest. For example, many of the ImageNet
categories are devoted to speciﬁc animal species, which are
not generally characteristics of the events. In contrast, the
VideoStory embedding is automatically derived from the
VideoStory46K dataset, which includes many descriptions
relevant to events. Note, in contrast to previous work, our
low-level representation outperforms the attribute represen-
tation, indicating the strong low-level features used in this
work.
The results further demonstrate that the VideoStory out-
performs the low-level representation. As an explanation,
we speculate that the low-level representation is prone to
overﬁtting due to its high dimensionality. More speciﬁcally,
in the low-level baseline, the event classiﬁers are trained
on the 20,480 dimensional low-level features only from 10
positive exemplars. This may lead to overﬁtting as a result
1 2
5
10
100
0
10
20
30
40
50
Number of Event Training Examples
mAP
MED 2013
 
 
1 2
5
10
100
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Number of Event Training Examples
mAP
CCV10
VideoStory
Low−Level
Fig. 7. From 1 to 100 examples. When the number of event exemplars
are limited the VideoStory embedding outperforms the low-level repre-
sentation. By increasing the number of training examples their difference
becomes more subtle.
of the curse of dimensionality. In contrast, the VideoStory
representation transfers the semantics from descriptions into
the video representation to alleviate the overﬁtting as a sort
of regularization.
From 1 to 100 examples. For further investigation, we
gradually increase the number of positive examples from
1 to 100, and evaluate the accuracy of the event classiﬁers
trained on both the low-level and VideoStory representa-
tion. The positive examples are selected randomly2 and
the results are reported by averaging over 10 repetitions
to compensate for the random effect. As Figure 7 shows,
when the number of event train examples is less than 10, the
VideoStory representation outperforms the low-level repre-
sentation. However, by increasing the number of training
examples to 100, the difference in the performances becomes
more subtle, which conﬁrms the hypothesis.
5.2
VideoStory Fusion
We evaluate the effectiveness of the VideoStory fusion
(VideoStoryF) proposed in Section 3.2 for few-example
event recognition. We perform the experiments using the ap-
pearance, motion, and audio modalities, as detailed in Sec-
tion 4.2.
5.2.1
Effect of fusion
We study the impact of fusing multiple modalities for
learning the video representation. We start from using only
2. The additional event exemplars are selected from the 100Ex evalu-
ation procedure provided in the MED dataset
10
VideoStoryF
grinder
drill
industrial
collision
car
race
laugh
cheer
bark
dog
woof
grinder
drill
industrial
collision
car
race
laugh
cheer
bark
dog
woof
VideoStory late fusion (Appearance)
grinder
drill
industrial
collision
car
race
laugh
cheer
bark
dog
woof
grinder
drill
industrial
collision
car
race
laugh
cheer
bark
dog
woof
VideoStory late fusion (Motion)
grinder
drill
industrial
collision
car
race
laugh
cheer
bark
dog
woof
grinder
drill
industrial
collision
car
race
laugh
cheer
bark
dog
woof
VideoStory late fusion (Audio)
 
 
grinder
drill
industrial
collision
car
race
laugh
cheer
bark
dog
woof
grinder
drill
industrial
collision
car
race
laugh
cheer
bark
dog
woof
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Fig. 8. Effect of learning the embeddings jointly over all the modalities by comparing VideoStoryF with the VideoStory late fusion baseline. Each
textual projection matrix is visualized by plotting A × A⊤, which reveals the learned term combinations. The VideoStoryF learn a more reasonable
combination of terms compared to the VideoStory late fusion, where the embeddings are learned disjointedly per modality.
TABLE 3
Effect of fusion. Fusing more modalities to learn VideoStoryF leads to a more effective semantic representation.
MED 2013
MED 2014
CCV10
Event
Appearance
+ Motion
+ Audio
Event
Appearance
+ Motion
+ Audio
Event
Appearance
+ Motion
+ Audio
Birthday party
37.1
38.8
43.4
Attempting a bike trick
9.0
9.4
8.8
Basketball
65.6
67.9
68.6
Changing a vehicle tire
64.7
65.5
67.2
Cleaning an appliance
11.1
13.7
16.0
Baseball
58.6
59.6
59.5
Flash mob gathering
55.3
63.8
65.0
Dog show
83.7
88.0
89.7
Soccer
58.7
64.5
64.7
Getting a vehicle unstuck
59.3
65.2
65.3
Giving directions to a location
0.5
1.4
1.0
Ice Skating
70.2
74.5
75.1
Grooming an animal
24.3
29.4
28.2
Marriage proposal
0.3
0.5
0.6
Skiing
79.4
81.8
81.9
Making a sandwich
16.7
18.9
21.3
Renovating a home
11.5
11.9
12.9
Swimming
78.9
81.8
81.7
Parade
33.9
44.7
44.0
Rock climbing
13.8
14.2
13.7
Biking
67.3
69.0
70.2
Parkour
61.3
72.8
72.2
Town hall meeting
40.1
36.3
42.4
Cat
66.2
68.3
70.8
Repairing an appliance
44.5
49.7
57.4
Winning a race without a vehicle
22.1
26.8
26.7
Dog
65.4
68.9
68.6
Working on a sewing project
47.2
48.0
46.0
Working on a metal crafts
15.0
17.9
20.6
Bird
33.9
35.9
36.4
Attempting a bike trick
8.8
9.3
8.9
Beekeeping
54.1
53.5
48.1
Graduation
25.3
27.6
25.1
Cleaning an appliance
10.5
13.2
15.5
Wedding shower
19.7
31.5
40.3
Birthday
54.2
56.2
61.9
Dog show
81.6
84.9
85.9
Non-motorized vehicle repair
65.3
66.0
66.5
Wedding Reception
17.3
18.3
19.5
Giving directions to a location
0.6
1.0
0.9
Fixing musical instrument
25.4
31.0
44.0
Wedding Ceremony
45.6
53.5
58.4
Marriage proposal
0.3
0.4
0.5
Horse riding competition
40.5
37.9
35.6
Wedding Dance
51.3
58.6
61.7
Renovating a home
11.4
12.1
13.8
Felling a tree
12.4
16.2
22.3
Music Performance
41.0
41.6
51.1
Rock climbing
13.7
14.9
14.4
Parking a vehicle
17.3
19.5
21.9
NonMusic Performance
30.6
35.6
36.4
Town hall meeting
40.2
38.9
44.8
Playing fetch
1.3
1.3
1.4
Parade
49.4
64.0
64.0
Winning a race without a vehicle
21.9
28.8
27.8
Tailgating
32.9
34.5
37.7
Beach
74.5
73.9
72.9
Working on a metal crafts
15.2
18.0
20.4
Tuning musical instrument
8.7
8.3
15.1
Playground
63.4
61.9
58.1
mAP
32.4
35.9
37.1
mAP
24.2
26.0
28.3
mAP
54.8
58.2
59.3
TABLE 4
Comparison with other fusions. The VideoStoryF outperforms the alternative fusion tactics.
Early fusion
Late fusion
VideoStory early fusion
VideoStory late fusion
VideoStoryF
MED 2013
32.6
33.8
33.8
33.6
37.1
MED 2014
27.0
27.0
27.0
26.1
28.3
CCV10
56.3
55.8
56.9
55.4
59.3
the appearance features (Appearance) and gradually add the
motion (+ Motion) and audio features (+ Audio) to learn the
video representation by our proposed VideoStoryF.
Results. Table 3 shows that the more modalities are
fused, the more effective video representation is learned by
VideoStoryF. It conﬁrms that incorporating more modalities
for estimating the predictability loss leads to a more effective
representation learning.
By looking into the results, we observe that some
events are beneﬁting more from adding the auditory modal-
ity, i.e., birthday party and music performance. For these events,
there are some distinctive terms which are more effectively
predicted from the audio features, i.e., singing, clapping,
and piano. Similarly, some other events are more improved
by including motion features, i.e., parkour and parade, for
which some distinctive terms such as jumping, rolling,
and running are well predictable from the motion features.
It demonstrates that different modalities are complementary
for predicting the terms, so they are all required to effec-
tively predict the video descriptions.
5.2.2
Comparison with other fusions
We evaluate our proposed VideoStoryF by comparing it
with the following fusion baselines:
1. Early fusion. This baseline fuses the modalities by sim-
ply concatenating the low-level features from all the three
modalities into a longer feature vector. Then the event
classiﬁers are trained and applied on the concatenated low-
level features. This simple baseline is shown to be very
competitive to the more complicated multiple kernel learn-
ing [67].
2. Late fusion. This baseline fuses the modalities at the level
of event classiﬁcation scores. A separate event classiﬁer is
learned by training an SVM on low-level video features per
11
modality. For each test video, the ﬁnal event detection score
is obtained by averaging the detection scores predicted by
each classiﬁer, as evaluated in [50].
3. VideoStory early fusion. This baseline learns one Video-
Story embedding on the concatenation of various low-level
video features, using the standard VideoStory objective
of Eq. (1). For each video, a semantic representation is
extracted by applying the learned feature projection on the
concatenation of the low-level video features. Then, the
event classiﬁers are trained and applied on the semantic
video representations.
4. VideoStory late fusion. This baseline learns three sepa-
rate VideoStory embeddings, one per modality, using the
standard VideoStory objective of Eq. (1). For each video,
a semantic representation is obtained by concatenating the
three VideoStory representations, which are predicted from
each modality. Then, the event classiﬁers are trained and
applied on the semantic video representations.
Results.
The
results
are
reported
in
Table
4.
The
VideoStoryF outperforms the alternative fusion baselines on
all the three test sets. We explain the better performance of
VideoStoryF compared to the early fusion and late fusion by
the fact that both baselines train the event classiﬁers directly
from low-level video features. However, in VideoStoryF
the event classiﬁers are trained on the semantic VideoStory
representations, which are more effective than the low-
level features in general, as shown in Section 5.1.3 for the
appearance features.
In the VideoStory late fusion the embeddings are learned
separately per modality. In contrast, VideoStoryF relies on
all the video modalities jointly to estimate the predictability
loss, which in general is more reliable than the per modal-
ity predictability estimations. For further investigation, we
visualizing the learned textual projection matrices A in Fig-
ure 8. As shown in this ﬁgure, the VideoStoryF prevents
some undesirable combination of terms that happen when
the predictability losses are estimated separately per modal-
ity. For example, in the VideoStory which is learned only
on audio features, the terms laugh, cheer, bark, dog,
and woof are all combined as they have similar auditory
features (see the right plot). However, the VideoStoryF
does not combine the laugh and cheer with the bark,
dog, and woof terms, as these terms are different in the
appearance and motion features. Hence, the VideoStoryF
learns a more reliable combination of terms, which leads to
a more effective video representation.
VideoStory early fusion learns a single feature projection
matrix on the concatenated video features. However, the
low-level features from different modalities have a dif-
ferent intrinsic dimensionality, distribution, and meaning,
which aggravates the learning from their concatenation. In
contrast, the VideoStoryF learns separate feature projec-
tion matrices per modality, where each feature projection
is optimized based on the features from one modality. It
alleviates learning the feature projections, which leads to a
more effective video representation.
To conclude, the VideoStoryF effectively fuses the fea-
tures from various video modalities by embedding them
into a mutual semantic representation learned jointly over
all the modalities.
5.3
VideoStory for Zero-Example Recognition
We evaluate the effectiveness of the VideoStory0 and its
multimodal fusion VideoStoryF
0 , proposed in Section 3.3,
for zero-example event recognition by comparing with the
following video representations:
1. Term attributes-f. Similar to the few-example experiments
in Section 5.1.1, this representation is extracted by the fre-
quent term attributes, which are learned directly from terms
without any embedding.
2. VideoStory. This video representation is learned by the
VideoStory embeddings, proposed in Section 3.1, for few-
example event recognition. More speciﬁcally, this represen-
tation is learned based on the LSI, in Eq. (2), as the descrip-
tiveness loss, and the unimodal predictability, in Eq. (3), as
the predictability loss.
Results. The results are reported in Table 5. The three
embedding based representations, VideoStory, VideoStory0,
and VideoStoryF
0 , outperform the term attributes-f repre-
sentation on both the MED 2013 and MED 2014 test sets.
It conﬁrms the effectiveness of embeddings for learning
the semantic representations for zero-example event recog-
nition. The most effective representation is learned by the
VideoStoryF
0 , which rely on the term sensitive descriptive-
ness loss (Lts
d), and the multimodal predictability loss (LF
p ).
By comparing the term attributes-f and VideoStory, we
observe that although the VideoStory utilizes the term cor-
relations by embedding, its improvement over the term
attributes-f is subtle, especially on the MED 2014 test set.
As an explanation we highlight that in the VideoStory
baseline, the descriptiveness loss is deﬁned based on LSI.
As discussed before, the LSI loss treats all the terms equally
when measuring the reconstruction error. Hence this loss
is biased toward minimizing the reconstruction error for
the frequent terms. As a consequence, the VideoStory em-
bedding generally is not accurate in predicting the terms,
which are infrequent in its training data. It degrades the
effectiveness of the VideoStory embedding for zero-example
event recognition, where the accuracy in predicting some
speciﬁc terms is crucial.
The drawback of the VideoStory baseline is addressed by
VideoStory0, which relies on the term sensitive descriptive-
ness loss. This loss minimizes the reconstruction error for
the terms, which are indicative of the event, even if those
terms are not frequent in the VideoStory train data. As a
result, it can predict the distinctive terms of an event more
accurately, compared to the VideoStory, which improves the
event recognition accuracies from 15.9 to 18.3 on MED 2013,
and from 5.2 to 6.8 on MED 2014. In Figure 9, we compare
the term vectors, which are predicted by VideoStory and
VideoStory0
for three video examples. It shows that the
VideoStory0 more effectively predicts the indicative terms
of the event, although they are not frequent in the train data.
The most effective representation is learned by the
VideoStoryF
0 . It indicates that the term sensitive descrip-
tiveness loss (Lts
d) and the multimodal predictability loss
(LF
p ) are both effective and complementary when learn-
ing semantic video representations for zero-example event
recognition.
12
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
garage
wall
window
tile
install
Terms
Predictions
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
jump
run
horse
race
ride
Terms
Predictions
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
chain
wheel
tire
repair
bicycle
Terms
Predictions
VideoStory
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
garage
wall
window
tile
install
Terms
Predictions
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
jump
run
horse
race
ride
Terms
Predictions
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
chain
wheel
tire
repair
bicycle
Terms
Predictions
VideoStory0
non-motorized vehicle repair
horse riding competition
renovating a home
Fig. 9. Unseen video examples and their term vectors predicted by the VideoStory (middle) and the VideoStory0 embeddings (bottom). The size of
each term indicates its prediction conﬁdence score. The VideoStory0 more effectively predicts the indicative terms of the event.
TABLE 5
Effect of embedding for zero-example event recognition. The results demonstrate that the term sensitive descriptiveness loss (Lts
d) and the
multimodal predictability loss (LF
p ) are both effective and complementary for zero-example event recognition.
MED 2013
MED 2014
Event
Term attributes-f
VideoStory
VideoStory0
VideoStoryF
0
Event
Term attributes-f
VideoStory
VideoStory0
VideoStoryF
0
Birthday party
14.5
24.6
30.3
37.4
Attempting a bike trick
4.9
8.8
7.1
5.9
Changing a vehicle tire
17.7
43.9
42.1
38.2
Cleaning an appliance
11.9
8.2
9.5
12.3
Flash mob gathering
15.2
14.5
22.4
33.8
Dog show
22.8
4.0
5.8
5.4
Getting a vehicle unstuck
28.9
40.2
36.0
32.2
Giving directions to a location
0.4
0.6
0.6
1.1
Grooming an animal
17.4
18.7
28.0
23.4
Marriage proposal
0.5
0.3
0.4
0.7
Making a sandwich
14.8
19.4
21.1
17.1
Renovating a home
4.8
5.2
6.8
6.3
Parade
20.0
17.6
26.4
38.2
Rock climbing
0.8
1.6
1.4
1.0
Parkour
15.9
26.1
28.0
40.3
Town hall meeting
15.5
1.9
9.2
9.2
Repairing an appliance
41.3
39.8
41.4
46.3
Winning a race without a vehicle
5.8
9.4
8.4
7.6
Working on a sewing project
23.8
30.8
36.4
36.0
Working on a metal crafts
7.5
1.5
4.7
4.8
Attempting a bike trick
5.0
8.8
7.1
5.9
Beekeeping
0.4
0.3
0.6
0.9
Cleaning an appliance
10.7
8.2
9.1
12.5
Wedding shower
1.3
2.3
3.3
3.3
Dog show
23.5
4.0
5.8
5.9
Non-motorized vehicle repair
8.4
33.2
44.2
46.9
Giving directions to a location
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
Fixing musical instrument
3.1
4.7
7.9
25.5
Marriage proposal
0.5
0.3
0.4
0.7
Horse riding competition
2.3
7.7
12.8
13.7
Renovating a home
4.8
5.2
6.8
6.4
Felling a tree
3.9
7.7
6.5
6.8
Rock climbing
0.8
1.6
1.4
1.0
Parking a vehicle
0.3
2.8
2.3
2.9
Town hall meeting
15.5
1.9
9.2
9.6
Playing fetch
3.6
2.2
2.9
3.3
Winning a race without a vehicle
5.8
9.4
8.4
7.9
Tailgating
0.6
0.2
0.2
0.4
Working on a metal crafts
7.3
1.6
4.9
7.0
Tuning musical instrument
0.9
0.5
0.9
2.0
mAP
14.2
15.9
18.3
20.0
mAP
5.0
5.2
6.8
8.0
5.4
Comparison with the state-of-the-art
We evaluate the merit of the proposed VideoStory by com-
paring it with several other recent works on few- and zero-
example event recognition. Since in most papers the results
are reported only on the MED 2013 test set, we limit our
comparisons to this test set.
The results are reported in Table 6. It shows that our
proposed representation learning sets a new state-of-the-
art for the both few- and zero-example event recognition.
It should be noted that these works rely on modeling the
temporal aspects of the events [8], [40], [63], [66], using
larger train set for representation learning [7], [29], [31], and
query expansion [7], [76] to improve the event recognition.
These improvements can be also applied together with our
representation learning for a more effective event recogni-
tion. Very recently Jiang et al. [31] improved their results for
zero-example recognition from 18.3 to 20.8 after adding re-
ranking by pseudo relevance feedback, we expect a similar
gain for VideoStory0 and VideoStoryF
0 .
6
CONCLUSION
In this paper, we attack the problem of event recognition in
video when examples are scarce. We propose the VideoStory
embedding that learns a semantic video representation from
a set of videos and their textual descriptions by minimizing
a joint objective function balancing term descriptiveness and
video predictability losses. As a result, the terms which are
correlated in the descriptions are combined together to im-
prove their video predictability. Besides its effectiveness for
few-example event recognition, the VideoStory embedding
also improves the representation learning time by reducing
redundancies during training.
In addition, we propose the VideoStoryF embedding
with a multimodal predictability loss learned jointly over
video appearance, motion, and audio features. The different
modalities are complementary for predicting the terms, so
they are all required for a richer video description. More-
over, embedding the heterogeneous video features into a
mutual semantic space leads to few-example event recogni-
13
TABLE 6
Comparison with the state-of-the-art. VideoStory embeddings set a new state-of-the-art for the both few- and zero-example event recognition.
Few-example on MED 2013
Zero-example on MED 2013
Habibian et al. [20]
MM 2014
19.6
Ye et al. [80]
MM 2015
9.0
Nagel et al. [48]
BMVC 2015
21.8
Chang et al. [7]
IJCAI 2015
9.6
Li et al. [40]†
ICCV 2013
23.7
Mazloom et al. [46]
ICMR 2015
11.9
Tang et al. [66]†
CVPR 2012
26.8
Wu et al. [76]
CVPR 2014
12.7
Sun et al. [63]†
CVPR 2014
28.7
Jiang et al. [29]
AAAI 2015
12.9
Chang et al. [8]
MM 2015
30.9
Jiang et al. [31]
MM 2015
18.3
This paper: VideoStory
32.4
This paper: VideoStory0
18.3
This paper: VideoStoryF
37.1
This paper: VideoStoryF
0
20.0
† Based on implementation by [8]
tion that is more effective than traditional fusion tactics.
We also propose the VideoStory0 embedding to recognize
an event in video from just a textual query in the form of an
event description. This embedding relies on a term sensitive
descriptiveness loss to learn a more accurate representation
for the terms, which are indicative of the event. Finally,
the VideoStoryF
0 embedding demonstrates that the term sen-
sitive descriptiveness loss and the multimodal predictability
loss are both effective and complementary to learn semantic
video representations for zero-example event recognition.
By it abilities to improve predictability upon any un-
derlying video feature while at the same time maximizing
semantic descriptiveness, VideoStory leads to state-of-the-
art accuracy for both few- and zero-example recognition of
events in video. We consider VideoStory’s ability to generate
human interpretable representations for previously unseen
videos most appealing, as it opens up new connections with
natural language processing and computational linguistics
for describing and querying videos.
REFERENCES
[1]
CMU sphinx open source toolkit for speech recognition. http://
cmusphinx.sourceforge.net/. Accessed: 2015-08-03. 4.2
[2]
Z. Akata, F. Perronnin, Z. Harchaoui, and C. Schmid.
Label-
embedding for attribute-based classiﬁcation. In CVPR, 2013. 2.2
[3]
T. Berg, A. Berg, and J. Shih. Automatic attribute discovery and
characterization from noisy web data. In ECCV, 2010. 1, 2.1, 3.1,
5.1.1
[4]
S. Bhattacharya, M. M. Kalayeh, R. Sukthankar, and M. Shah.
Recognition of complex events: Exploiting temporal dynamics
between underlying concepts. In CVPR, 2014. 1
[5]
D. M. Blei and M. I. Jordan. Modeling annotated data. In SIGIR,
2003. 2.2
[6]
L. Bottou. Large-scale machine learning with stochastic gradient
descent. In ICCS, 2010. 3.1
[7]
X. Chang, Y. Yang, A. G. Hauptmann, E. P. Xing, and Y.-L.
Yu.
Semantic concept discovery for large-scale zero-shot event
detection. In IJCAI, 2015. 2.3, 5.4, 6
[8]
X. Chang, Y.-L. Yu, Y. Yang, and A. G. Hauptmann.
Searching
persuasively: Joint event detection and evidence recounting with
limited supervision. In MM, 2015. 5.4, 6
[9]
J. Chen, Y. Cui, G. Ye, D. Liu, and S.-F. Chang.
Event-driven
semantic concept discovery by exploiting weakly tagged internet
images. In ICMR, 2014. 1, 2.1, 2.3, 5.1.1
[10] J. Costa Pereira, E. Coviello, G. Doyle, N. Rasiwasia, G. R. Lanck-
riet, R. Levy, and N. Vasconcelos. On the role of correlation and
abstraction in cross-modal multimedia retrieval.
IEEE TPAMI,
2014. 2.2, 5.1.2
[11] Y. Cui, D. Liu, J. Chen, and S.-F. Chang. Building a large concept
bank for representing events in video. arXiv:1403.7591, 2014. 1,
2.1, 2.3, 5.1.1
[12] J. Dalton, J. Allan, and P. Mirajkar. Zero-shot video retrieval using
content and concepts. In CIKM, 2013. 2.3
[13] P. Das, R. Srihari, and J. Corso. Translating related words to videos
and back through latent topics. In WSDM, 2013. 2.2
[14] P. Das, C. Xu, R. Doell, and J. Corso. A thousand frames in just
a few words: Lingual description of videos through latent topics
and sparse object stitching. In CVPR, 2013. 2.2
[15] A. Dehghan, H. Idrees, and M. Shah. Improving semantic concept
detection through the dictionary of visually-distinct elements. In
CVPR, 2014. 1
[16] A. Farhadi, I. Endres, D. Hoiem, and D. Forsyth. Describing objects
by their attributes. In CVPR, 2009. 1, 2.3
[17] F. Feng, X. Wang, and R. Li. Cross-modal retrieval with correspon-
dence autoencoder. In MM, 2014. 2.2
[18] V. Ferrari and A. Zisserman. Learning visual attributes. In NIPS,
2007. 2.1
[19] A. Habibian, T. Mensink, and C. G. M. Snoek. Composite concept
discovery for zero-shot video event detection. In ICMR, 2014. 2.3
[20] A. Habibian, T. Mensink, and C. G. M. Snoek.
Videostory: A
new multimedia embedding for few-example recognition and
translation of events. In MM, 2014. 1, 3, 4.1.1, 6
[21] A. Habibian and C. G. M. Snoek. Recommendations for recogniz-
ing video events by concept vocabularies. CVIU, 124, 2014. 1, 2.1,
5.1.3
[22] T. Hofmann. Probabilistic latent semantic indexing. In SIGIR, 1999.
3.1
[23] H. Hotelling. Relation betweeen two sets of variates. Biometrika,
28:322–377, 1936. 2.2
[24] H. Izadinia and M. Shah. Recognizing complex events using large
margin joint low-level event model. In ECCV, 2012. 1
[25] M. Jain, H. J´egou, and P. Bouthemy. Better exploiting motion for
better action recognition. In CVPR, 2013. 4.2
[26] H. J´egou, F. Perronnin, M. Douze, J. Sanchez, P. Perez, and
C. Schmid.
Aggregating local image descriptors into compact
codes. IEEE TPAMI, 2012. 1, 2.1, 4.2
[27] S. Ji, W. Xu, M. Yang, and K. Yu. 3d convolutional neural networks
for human action recognition. IEEE TPAMI, 35(1):221–231, 2013. 1
[28] Y. Jia, E. Shelhamer, J. Donahue, S. Karayev, J. Long, R. Girshick,
S. Guadarrama, and T. Darrell. Caffe: Convolutional architecture
for fast feature embedding. In MM, 2014. 4.2
[29] L. Jiang, D. Meng, Q. Zhao, S. Shan, and A. G. Hauptmann. Self-
paced curriculum learning. In AAAI, 2015. 2.3, 5.4, 6
[30] L. Jiang, T. Mitamura, S.-I. Yu, and A. G. Hauptmann.
Zero-
example event search using multimodal pseudo relevance feed-
back. In ICMR, 2014. 2.3
[31] L. Jiang, S.-I. Yu, D. Meng, Y. Yang, T. Mitamura, and A. G.
Hauptmann. Fast and accurate content-based semantic search in
100m internet videos. In MM, 2015. 1, 2.1, 2.3, 5.4, 6
[32] Y.-G. Jiang, S. Bhattacharya, S.-F. Chang, and M. Shah. High-level
event recognition in unconstrained videos.
IJMIR, 2(2):73–101,
2013. 1
[33] Y.-G. Jiang, G. Ye, S.-F. Chang, D. Ellis, and A. Loui. Consumer
video understanding: A benchmark database and an evaluation of
human and machine performance. In ICMR, 2011. 4.1.2, 4.3
[34] Y.-G. Jiang, X. Zeng, G. Ye, S. Bhattacharya, D. Ellis, M. Shah,
and S.-F. Chang. Columbia-UCF TRECVID 2010 multimedia event
14
detection: Combining multiple modalities, contextual concepts,
and temporal matching. In TRECVID, 2010. 2.1, 3.2
[35] A. Karpathy and L. Fei-Fei. Deep visual-semantic alignments for
generating image descriptions. In CVPR, 2015. 2.2
[36] A. Karpathy, G. Toderici, S. Shetty, T. Leung, R. Sukthankar, and
L. Fei-Fei.
Large-scale video classiﬁcation with convolutional
neural networks. In CVPR, 2014. 1
[37] A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, and G. Hinton. Imagenet classiﬁcation
with deep convolutional neural networks. In NIPS, 2012. 2.1, 3.1
[38] C. H. Lampert, H. Nickisch, and S. Harmeling. Learning to detect
unseen object classes by between-class attribute transfer. In CVPR,
2009. 1, 2.1, 2.3
[39] I. Laptev, M. Marszałek, C. Schmid, and B. Rozenfeld. Learning
realistic human actions from movies. In CVPR, 2008. 2.1
[40] W. Li, Q. Yu, A. Divakaran, and N. Vasconcelos. Dynamic pooling
for complex event recognition. In ICCV, 2013. 5.4, 6
[41] Z. Ma. From concepts to events: A progressive process for multimedia
content analysis. PhD thesis, University of Trento, 2013. 1
[42] Z. Ma, Y. Yang, N. Sebe, and A. G. Hauptmann.
Knowledge
adaptation with partially shared features for event detection using
few exemplars. IEEE TPAMI, 2014. 1, 2.1
[43] Z. Ma, Y. Yang, Z. Xu, S. Yan, N. Sebe, and A. Hauptmann.
Complex event detection via multi-source video attributes.
In
CVPR, 2013. 1
[44] J. Mairal, F. Bach, and J. Ponce. Sparse modeling for image and
vision processing. FnTCGV, 8(2-3):85–283, 2012. 3.1
[45] M. Mazloom, E. Gavves, and C. G. M. Snoek.
Conceptlets:
Selective semantics for classifying video events. TMM, 16, 2014. 1,
2.1
[46] M. Mazloom, A. Habibian, D. Liu, C. G. M. Snoek, and S.-F.
Chang. Encoding concept prototypes for video event detection
and summarization. In ICMR, 2015. 2.3, 6
[47] M. Merler, B. Huang, L. Xie, G. Hua, and A. Natsev. Semantic
model vectors for complex video event recognition. TMM, 2012.
1, 4.3
[48] M. Nagel, T. Mensink, and C. Snoek. Event ﬁsher vectors: Robust
encoding visual diversity of visual streams. In BMVC, 2015. 2.1, 6
[49] P. Natarajan et al. BBN VISER TRECVID 2013 multimedia event
detection and multimedia event recounting systems. In TRECVID,
2013. 1
[50] P. Natarajan, S. Wu, S. Vitaladevuni, X. Zhuang, S. Tsakalidis,
U. Park, R. Prasad, and P. Natarajan. Multimodal feature fusion
for robust event detection in web videos. In CVPR, 2012. 1, 2.1,
3.2, 5.2.2
[51] J. Ngiam, A. Khosla, M. Kim, J. Nam, H. Lee, and A. Y. Ng.
Multimodal deep learning. In ICML, 2011. 2.2
[52] S. Oh, S. McCloskey, I. Kim, A. Vahdat, K. J. Cannons, H. Ha-
jimirsadeghi, G. Mori, A. A. Perera, M. Pandey, and J. J. Corso.
Multimedia event detection with multimodal feature fusion and
temporal concept localization. MVA, 2014. 1
[53] D. Oneata, J. Verbeek, and C. Schmid. Action and event recogni-
tion with ﬁsher vectors on a compact feature set. In ICCV, 2013.
2.1
[54] P. Over, J. Fiscus, G. Sanders, et al. TRECVID 2013-an overview
of the goals, tasks, data, evaluation mechanisms and metrics. In
TRECVID, 2013. 1, 1, 2.1, 2.3, 4.1.2, 4.3
[55] M. Palatucci, D. Pomerleau, G. E. Hinton, and T. M. Mitchell. Zero-
shot learning with semantic output codes. In NIPS, 2009. 1
[56] D. Parikh and K. Grauman. Relative attributes. In ICCV, 2011. 2.3
[57] D. Putthividhy, H. T. Attias, and S. S. Nagarajan. Topic regression
multi-modal latent dirichlet allocation for image annotation. In
CVPR, 2010. 2.2
[58] O. Russakovsky, J. Deng, H. Su, J. Krause, S. Satheesh, S. Ma,
Z. Huang, A. Karpathy, A. Khosla, M. Bernstein, et al. Imagenet
large scale visual recognition challenge. IJCV, 2015. 1, 2.1
[59] J. S´anchez, F. Perronnin, T. Mensink, and J. Verbeek.
Image
classiﬁcation with the ﬁsher vector: Theory and practice. IJCV,
105, 2013. 2.1, 3.1, 4.2
[60] K. Simonyan and A. Zisserman.
Very deep convolutional net-
works for large-scale image recognition.
In ICLR, 2015.
1, 2.1,
4.2
[61] C. Snoek, M. Worring, and A. Smeulders. Early versus late fusion
in semantic video analysis. In MM, 2005. 3.2
[62] S. Strassel et al.
Creating havic: Heterogeneous audio visual
internet collection. In LREC, 2012. 4.1.2
[63] C. Sun and R. Nevatia. Discover: Discovering important segments
for classiﬁcation of video events and recounting. In CVPR, 2014.
5.4, 6
[64] C. Szegedy, W. Liu, Y. Jia, P. Sermanet, S. Reed, D. Anguelov,
D. Erhan, V. Vanhoucke, and A. Rabinovich. Going deeper with
convolutions. In CVPR, 2015. 1, 2.1, 4.2
[65] A. Tamrakar, S. Ali, Q. Yu, J. Liu, O. Javed, A. Divakaran,
H. Cheng, and H. Sawhney. Evaluation of low-level features and
their combinations for complex event detection in open source
videos. In CVPR, 2012. 1, 2.1
[66] K. Tang, L. Fei-Fei, and D. Koller.
Learning latent temporal
structure for complex event detection. In CVPR, 2012. 5.4, 6
[67] K. Tang, B. Yao, L. Fei-Fei, and D. Koller. Combining the right
features for complex event recognition. In ICCV, 2013. 3.2, 5.2.2
[68] G. W. Taylor, R. Fergus, Y. LeCun, and C. Bregler. Convolutional
learning of spatio-temporal features. In ECCV, 2010. 1
[69] I. Tsochantaridis, T. Joachims, T. Hofmann, and Y. Altun. Large
margin methods for structured and interdependent output vari-
ables. In JMLR, pages 1453–1484, 2005. 3.1
[70] S. Venugopalan, H. Xu, J. Donahue, M. Rohrbach, R. Mooney, and
K. Saenko.
Translating videos to natural language using deep
recurrent neural networks. In NAACL, 2015. 2.2
[71] H. Wang, D. Oneata, J. Verbeek, and C. Schmid. A robust and
efﬁcient video representation for action recognition. IJCV, 2015. 1
[72] H. Wang and C. Schmid.
Action recognition with improved
trajectories. In ICCV, 2013. 1, 2.1, 3.1, 4.2
[73] Q. Wang, J. Xu, H. Li, and N. Craswell.
Regularized latent
semantic indexing. In SIGIR, 2011. 3.1, 3.1, 5.1.2
[74] K. Q. Weinberger and O. Chapelle.
Large margin taxonomy
embedding for document categorization. In NIPS, 2009. 3.1
[75] J. Weston, S. Bengio, and N. Usunier. Wsabie: Scaling up to large
vocabulary image annotation. In IJCAI, 2011. 2.2
[76] S. Wu, S. Bondugula, F. Luisier, X. Zhuang, and P. Natarajan.
Zero-shot event detection using multi-modal fusion of weakly
supervised concepts.
In CVPR, 2014.
1, 2.1, 2.3, 3.2, 5.1.1, 5.4,
6
[77] R. Xu, C. Xiong, W. Chen, and J. J. Corso. Jointly modeling deep
video and compositional text to bridge vision and language in a
uniﬁed framework. In AAAI, 2015. 2.2
[78] Z. Xu, Y. Yang, and A. G. Hauptmann. A discriminative cnn video
representation for event detection. In CVPR, 2015. 1, 2.1, 4.2, 4.3,
5.1.3
[79] Y. Yan, Y. Yang, H. Shen, D. Meng, G. Liu, A. Hauptmann, and
N. Sebe. Complex event detection via event oriented dictionary
learning. In AAAI, 2015. 1
[80] G. Ye, Y. Li, H. Xu, D. Liu, and S.-F. Chang. Eventnet: A large scale
structured concept library for complex event detection in video.
In MM, 2015. 1, 2.1, 2.3, 5.1.1, 6
[81] S.-I. Yu, L. Jiang, Z. Mao, X. Chang, X. Du, C. Gan, Z. Lan, Z. Xu,
X. Li, Y. Cai, et al. Informedia@ TRECVID 2014 MED and MER. In
TRECVID, 2014. 1, 2.1, 4.3
