2023 IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics

October 22-25, 2023, New Paltz, NY

BRIDGING HIGH-QUALITY AUDIO AND VIDEO VIA LANGUAGE
FOR SOUND EFFECTS RETRIEVAL FROM VISUAL QUERIES

Julia Wilkins1,2 Justin Salamon2 Magdalena Fuentes1 Juan Pablo Bello1 Oriol Nieto2

1 Music and Audio Research Laboratory, New York University, NY, USA
2 Adobe Research, San Francisco, CA, USA
jw3596@nyu.edu
https://juliawilkins.github.io/sound-effects-retrieval-from-video/

Figure 1: Our automatic audio-visual data curation pipeline (left). The new data are used to learn multimodal audio-visual embeddings (right).

ABSTRACT
Finding the right sound effects (SFX) to match moments in a video
is a difficult and time-consuming task, and relies heavily on the
quality and completeness of text metadata. Retrieving high-quality
(HQ) SFX using a video frame directly as the query is an attractive
alternative, removing the reliance on text metadata and providing a
low barrier to entry for non-experts. Due to the lack of HQ audio-
visual training data, previous work on audio-visual retrieval relies
on YouTube (“in-the-wild”) videos of varied quality for training,
where the audio is often noisy and the video of amateur quality. As
such it is unclear whether these systems would generalize to the task
of matching HQ audio to production-quality video. To address this,
we propose a multimodal framework for recommending HQ SFX
given a video frame by (1) leveraging large language models and
foundational vision-language models to bridge HQ audio and video
to create audio-visual pairs, resulting in a highly scalable automatic
audio-visual data curation pipeline; and (2) using pre-trained audio
and visual encoders to train a contrastive learning-based retrieval
system. We show that our system, trained using our automatic data
curation pipeline, significantly outperforms baselines trained on in-
the-wild data on the task of HQ SFX retrieval for video. Further-
more, while the baselines fail to generalize to this task, our system
generalizes well from clean to in-the-wild data, outperforming the
baselines on a dataset of YouTube videos despite only being trained
on the HQ audio-visual pairs. A user study confirms that people
prefer SFX retrieved by our system over the baseline 67% of the
time both for HQ and in-the-wild data. Finally, we present ablations
to determine the impact of model and data pipeline design choices
on downstream retrieval performance. Please visit our companion
website to listen to and view our SFX retrieval results.

Index Terms— Multimodal machine learning, cross-modal re-

trieval, audio-visual representation learning, data augmentation

979-8-3503-2372-6/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE

1. INTRODUCTION

Video creation and editing commonly entails matching sound ef-
fects (SFX) to video to create an engaging multimedia experience.
Yet finding the right SFX to pair with moments in a video is chal-
lenging and often time-consuming. Regardless of skill level, this
process typically relies heavily on the quality and completeness of
text metadata associated with an SFX library (i.e., for a text-based
search), which can vary significantly by library. Further, it is com-
mon to use sounds from one object to represent entirely different
objects (e.g., the sound of shoes on glass shards to represent walking
through snow), an art known as “Foley” [1, 2], meaning sonically
relevant sounds may be missed if we rely on metadata for retrieval.
Multimodal machine learning methods have become popular
across the visual, audio, and text domains [3, 4], due to their abil-
ity to learn from the correspondence between signals in different
modalities, often via contrastive learning [5, 6, 7], and the growing
availability of large multimedia datasets [8, 9, 10, 11, 12]. Previ-
ous approaches for audio-visual retrieval [13, 14, 15, 16, 17] rely
on YouTube, aka “in-the-wild”, videos [11, 18], where the audio
is often noisy and the video of amateur quality. These videos are
not necessarily representative of the production-quality videos and
associated audio that video creators often work with, so it is un-
clear whether systems trained on noisy video datasets can general-
ize to this type of high-quality (HQ) content. Datasets of HQ SFX
moments in videos are lacking, though recent attempts have been
made to address this by assuming sound event occurrences via video
captions [9, 19] or even generation [20]. For music, unlike SFX,
there are more HQ audio-visual data available (namely music video
clips), which have been leveraged to train music retrieval systems
for video [21, 22, 23]. To circumvent the need for HQ audio-visual
pairs, Lin et al. [24] use CLIP [25] to match embeddings of video

ImageEmbeddingImageEmbeddingImageEmbeddingImageEmbeddingText Query: “A boat accelerating to a very fast speed.”LLMTags: “2005 Malibu Wakesetter Power Boat, Accelerate to Very Fast Speed, Slow Down, Engine Roar, Water Splash, Recorded at Stern”CLIPTextEmbeddingXCLIPHQ Audio-visual Data PairsHQ Video Dataset...ImageEmbeddingAudioEmbeddingContrastive LossAutomatic HQ Audio-Visual Data Curation PipelineContrastive LearningPANNSCLIPHQ SFX 
 
 
2023 IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics

October 22-25, 2023, New Paltz, NY

frames against embeddings of text metadata associated with audio
SFX, to recommend SFX for a given video.

In this work, we address the lack of HQ audio-visual data for
SFX via a novel automatic data curation pipeline, and use it to
train an audio-visual SFX retrieval system that generalizes both to
production-grade and in-the-wild media content. Our contributions
can be summarized as follows: (1) we propose an automatic data
curation pipeline that bridges HQ audio and visual data via large
language models and foundation vision-language models; (2) we
show both quantitatively and qualitatively that by using this pipeline
to train a contrastive audio-visual model, we are able to signifi-
cantly outperform baselines on SFX retrieval given a visual input
query; (3) we show that our model generalizes to noisy “in-the-
wild” video despite being trained on the auto-curated HQ data; and
(4) we present ablations to study the impact of key model and data
pipeline design choices on downstream retrieval performance.

2. METHOD

2.1. Automatic Audio-visual Data Curation Pipeline

To generate HQ audio-visual training data, we propose an automatic
data curation pipeline that leverages language and vision-language
models. First, we use text metadata associated with each SFX to
generate text embeddings via CLIP [25], and in parallel generate
CLIP image embeddings of video frames. Next, we retrieve the
most similar visual frames to each SFX-based text query via cosine
similarity. This method is depicted in Figure 1 (left). Studies have
shown that CLIP performs best at image retrieval when the input
text is a clear natural language description [26, 27]. The text meta-
data in most HQ audio SFX libraries, including the one used for
training in this work, does not fit this criterion. Rather, it is a list
of tags (Figure 1, left) that may be over-specific or include audio-
centric terms (e.g. “left to right sound”) that are not helpful for
retrieving relevant visual frames. To alleviate this, we propose to
use a large language model (LLM) in the data curation pipeline to
convert the tag data into natural language sentences before comput-
ing their CLIP embeddings. In this way, we obtain a text query that
is both in the right format (natural language) and level of specificity
for successful text-image matching using CLIP. We use Bloom [28],
an open-source LLM with 176B parameters and leverage prompt
analogies [23] to improve the quality of the output sentence. We
found that prompt analogies, in addition to producing overall better
quality sentences, allowed us to control their level of specificity and
filter out information from over-detailed tags. Later in our experi-
ments, we perform an ablation to capture the quantitative effect of
using the LLM-transformed SFX tags for text-image matching as
opposed to using the tags directly.

Our approach takes inspiration from Lin et al. [24], with two
key distinctions. First, we use an LLM to enhance the text meta-
data of SFX and optimize the image-text matching via CLIP. Most
importantly, in [24] they use this image-text relationship directly as
the retrieval system. In our method, we use this as a way to gen-
erate training data to then train an audio-visual model such that we
can retrieve SFX using visual queries without the need for text. The
entire pipeline is depicted in Figure 1.

The proposed data pipeline is fully automatic and thus highly
scalable, constrained only by the size of the SFX and video datasets.
Additionally, each SFX can be matched against the top k relevant
visual frames, serving as a form of data augmentation and produc-
ing a dataset of audio-visual pairs that is k times the size of the SFX
dataset. While our focus is on HQ SFX and video in this work, the

pipeline is applicable to any combination of audio and visual data
as long as the audio is associated with tag metadata.

Datasets: To create audio-visual

training pairs using our
pipeline, we draw data from high-quality SFX and video datasets.
For SFX we use the ProSoundEffects (PSE) Core 3 Pro Plus 1 bun-
dle. It contains 150k professional-grade audio from over 80 SFX
categories, along with metadata including category labels and no-
tably a detailed list of metadata tags per audio file. Some files con-
tain multiple SFX events separated by silence, in which case we seg-
mented them into a total of 336k individual SFX. For video, we use
a large collection of over 1 million HQ stock videos2 that are mostly
10 seconds or less in duration, and have associated text metadata of
varied quality and level of detail. Since our focus is on SFX for no-
table visual events, we use the metadata to filter the SFX and video
datasets to exclude categories outside the scope of our work. For
audio, we removed human sounds (e.g., speech, crying) and music
(e.g., saxophone, orchestra). For video, we aimed to keep visual
scenes depicting sound-producing foreground objects and actions,
removing largely ambient scenes (e.g., a video of an empty class-
room is not of interest in our setup). After filtering the PSE SFX
library and segmenting the audio files, we obtained 332k SFX with
a median duration of 3 seconds. We obtained 115k videos after sim-
ilar filtering. We sample the videos at 1FPS, and extract up to 10
random frames per video, yielding approximately 1.1 million video
frames to use in our automatic data curation pipeline. We split the
SFX into train, validation, and test splits, the latter two containing
4k SFX each with the rest used for training. The audio and visual
data are both completely disjoint across the data splits.

2.2. Contrastive learning for SFX retrieval

We use our HQ audio-visual training pairs to train a multimodal
model that maps audio and video frames into a shared embedding
space (Figure 1, right). Once trained, the model can be used for
retrieval by computing the embedding distance between a query
frame and a dataset of SFX to rank the SFX by their similarity to
the visual query. Similar to recent work including Wav2CLIP [13],
AudioCLIP [14], and CLAP [15], we use contrastive learning with
a standard contrastive loss [5] to train an audio encoder to project
an audio signal into the CLIP image embedding space. We do so
by keeping the original CLIP image encoder frozen during train-
ing, forcing the audio encoder to project audio into this pre-trained
space. The choice of audio encoder is discussed in Section 3.4.

3. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN

3.1. Evaluation Datasets

We evaluate our system on SFX retrieval from visual queries using
three test datasets: two created using our automatic data curation
pipeline (PSE-Test and ASFX-Test), and one “in-the-wild” dataset
of YouTube videos (AVE-Test). PSE-Test is the test split described
in Section 2, containing 4k unique audio-visual pairs spanning 40
SFX categories. It is the most “in-domain” of the three test sets,
though note again that it is completely disjoint from the training
data in terms of the audio and video files used to create the pairs.
ASFX-Test was created similarly to PSE-Test, but using SFX from
the publicly available Adobe Audition SFX Library3 paired with the

1https://www.prosoundeffects.com.
2https://stock.adobe.com/video.
3https://www.adobe.com/products/audition/offers/

AdobeAuditionDLCSFX.html.


2023 IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics

October 22-25, 2023, New Paltz, NY

same HQ video dataset used above. It contains 5k unique audio-
visual pairs across 19 SFX categories, and is completely disjoint
from PSE-Test and the training data. AVE-Test is a subset of the
AVE dataset [10], itself a curated subset of AudioSet [18] con-
taining videos with a high degree of audio-visual correspondence.
We filter AVE to exclude videos containing human sounds (notably
speech) or music, which as noted earlier are outside the scope of
this work, leaving 2.4k videos across 17 categories.4 While our tar-
get application is matching HQ SFX to production-grade video, as
represented by the first two datasets, AVE-Test allows us to evaluate
our system’s ability to generalize to “in-the-wild” noisy data.

3.2. Evaluation Metrics

We use a given video frame as query to rank the audio from all test
pairs based on their cosine similarity in the multimodal embedding
space. We repeat this for all test pairs and compute standard re-
trieval metrics: Median Rank (MR) and Recall at 10 (R@10). A
priori, we expect the metrics for matching the visual frame to the
exact audio file in the audio-visual pair to be low, since there could
be many other audio files containing SFX that are also relevant to
that frame. For this reason, we also compute category-level metrics
using the categories from the SFX metadata, where a retrieved SFX
is considered a correct match for a frame if its from the same SFX
category as the exact audio from the audio-visual pair. Since R@10
is a more lenient metric at the category-level, we instead focus on
Precision at 10 (P@10), i.e., the fraction of top-10 results that are
from the right SFX category. This metric is most representative of
our target use case, i.e., presenting the user with a short list of SFX,
ideally all of them from the right category given the visual query.

3.3. Baselines

We evaluate our system against two strong pre-trained baselines:
Wav2CLIP [13] and AudioCLIP [14], both of which were trained
to map audio input to the CLIP image embedding space, mean-
ing they can be used for audio retrieval given a visual input in the
same way as our system. Wav2CLIP uses a ResNet18 architec-
ture for the audio encoder and was trained on 5-second chunks of
video frames from VGGSound [11] sampled at a high frame rate
and mean-pooled for segment-level CLIP embeddings. AudioCLIP
uses an ESResNet [29] architecture initialized using ImageNet [30]
pre-training for the audio encoder, and was trained on single ran-
dom frames from AudioSet [18] videos. We use the AudioCLIP-
Trimodal model in which the audio encoder was trained against
CLIP image and CLIP text embeddings jointly. We use the orig-
inal model weights provided by the authors for both baselines.

3.4. Model Architecture and Training

For our system, we experiment with two model architectures for
the audio encoder: PANNS [31] and Wav2CLIP [13]. AudioCLIP
is not included due to its lower performance as a baseline com-
pared to Wav2CLIP, as we discuss in Section 4.1. PANNS is a
14-layer CNN architecture with 81M trainable parameters. It was
originally trained for audio classification on AudioSet. Wav2CLIP’s
ResNet18 audio encoder architecture has 11.2M trainable parame-
ters, and was originally trained on VGGSound. For each of the two
architectures, we try both training the model from scratch and fine-
tuning the original model weights using our auto-curated training
set. We train for a maximum of 150 epochs using batch size of 64

4The list of SFX and videos used in evaluation is on our companion site.

Figure 2: SFX retrieval results: P@10 for our best model (from
scratch and fine-tuned) and the baselines on the three test sets.

and learning rate of 10−5, and select the best epoch based on the
Category Precision@10 metric on our validation split.

3.5. Automatic Data Curation Design Choices

A key design choice in our automatic data curation pipeline is
whether we allow the same video frame to be matched to multi-
ple audio SFX (in the same data split), or whether we constrain the
pairing. Since multiple SFX can end up with the same or similar
natural language descriptions, if we pair them with the top match-
ing video frame without any constraints, they may be paired to the
same frame. This could lead to “visual hubs” that are potentially
matched to hundreds of SFX. While this strategy ensures the best vi-
sual match for each SFX, it reduces the diversity of the dataset since
we use fewer video frames overall. To address this, we can impose a
matching constraint wherein each video frame can only be matched
against N SFX after which we remove it from the pool of available
video frames. In the extreme case, we can set N = 1, meaning
each video frame can only be used in a single audio-visual pair,
producing a dataset of completely unique audio-visual pairs. This
has the effect of significantly increasing the diversity of the dataset,
but at the cost of not always using the most closely matched video
frame for each SFX. Having no constraint is equivalent to N = ∞,
where a video frame can be matched to an unbounded number of
SFX. In Section 4.3 we present an ablation study where we vary
N = {1, 2, 5, 10, 100, ∞} to generate variants of our training set
and evaluate how they impact downstream retrieval performance.

3.6. User Study

Since our goal is to produce a system the users find helpful, we com-
plement our quantitative evaluation with a user study in which we
compare our best performing model against the Wav2CLIP base-
line. The user was presented with two videos, each containing the
same single video frame but different SFX, one with the top SFX
retrieved by our model and one with the top SFX from the baseline.
The user was asked to indicate “Which video has a sound that bet-
ter matches the image?’ We deliberately did not play the full video
from which the frame was taken, since precise synchronization of
the SFX to the video is outside the scope of this work. Using a pool
containing a random sample of 400 video frames from PSE-Test
and 400 frames from AVE-Test, each user was shown a random se-
lection of 30 frames from the pool as queries. The ordering of the
two videos in each comparison was also randomized. We gathered
28 participants, and each completed 30 comparisons, yielding 840
total comparisons, evenly split between PSE-Test and AVE-Test.

PSE-TestASFX-TestAVE-Test0.00.10.20.30.40.50.60.7Category Precision @100.030.070.070.040.110.330.090.130.430.320.260.460.370.280.68RandomAudioCLIPWav2CLIPPANNS Scratch, N=1 (Ours)PANNS Fine-tuned, N=1 (Ours)
2023 IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics

October 22-25, 2023, New Paltz, NY

PSE-Test

ASFX-Test

AVE-Test










Table 1: Ablation study over model design and data pipeline design choices.

4. RESULTS

4.1. Quantitative and Qualitative Results

Based on the PSE validation split, our best performing model uses
the PANNS architecture for the audio encoder, starting from the
pre-trained model weights and fine-tuning the encoder on our auto-
curated training set which is generated with a pairing constraint
of N = 1 (for model selection we only tried N = {1, ∞}). In
Figure 2 we present the P@10 scores for this model, the PANNS
architecture trained from scratch, the two baselines and a random
baseline on the three test sets described above. Our best model sig-
nificantly outperforms the baselines across all three test sets. The
results indicate two important takeaways: first, that our model is su-
perior at matching HQ SFX to production quality video, our target
application, as indicated by the results on PSE-Test and ASFX-Test.
Second, and more surprising, our model successfully generalizes to
noisy in-the-wild data, represented by AVE-Test, which is particu-
larly interesting for our model trained from scratch as it was trained
with only HQ auto-curated audio-visual pairs. Conversely, the base-
lines, which were trained on large in-the-wild video collections, fail
to generalize to the clean audio-visual data. This validates our pro-
posed data curation pipeline as useful for training models that gen-
eralize to both clean HQ data and noisy in-the-wild data.

Turning to the qualitative results, the user study further vali-
dates our findings: participants preferred the SFX recommended
by our model over the baseline 68.1% and 66.4% of the time for
data from PSE-Test and AVE-Test, respectively. Two binomial tests,
one per dataset, indicated that these proportions were significantly
higher than the expected 50%, p < 0.01 (1-sided).

4.2. Model Ablation

In Table 1 we present an ablation over model design and data
pipeline design choices. We conducted the same ablation using
the Wav2CLIP audio encoder, but since results were consistently
better for the PANNS encoder, we only present the latter. From ini-
tial experiments, we hypothesize that performance improves using
PANNS vs. Wav2CLIP due to both our HQ audio-visual data cura-
tion pipeline and increased model capacity (81M vs. 11.2M param-
eters). Fine-tuning a pre-trained PANNS works better than training
from scratch, indicating we can benefit from transfer learning from
AudioSet classification to our audio-visual matching task. Finally,
when only comparing N = 1 to ∞ for the pairing constraint in the
automatic data curation pipeline, the former yields better results,
especially for AVE, indicating it is preferable to have a more di-
verse training set, even at the cost of not pairing every SFX to its
top-matching video frame.

4.3. Automatic Data Curation Design Choice Ablations

To analyze the effect of the LLM in our data curation pipeline, we
create a version of training data that uses the SFX metadata tags

directly to retrieve visual frames via CLIP (as opposed to using nat-
ural language sentences generated from the tags using an LLM).
We train our best performing architecture on this data and evalu-
ate on the same test sets detailed previously. This version of the
model performs similarly on PSE-Test and ASFX-Test but about
4pp worse on AVE-Test for Category Precision@10. This shows
that using the LLM in our pipeline leads to overall better quantita-
tive performance. Qualitatively, we observed that the usage of the
LLM creates more realistic, action-focused audio-visual pairs than
when tags are used directly.

To further explore the impact of the data pairing constraint on
downstream retrieval performance, we train our best performing
model design on six variants of the auto-curated training data. Each
training set variant is generated with a different pairing constraint
N ranging from 1 to ∞ (no constraint). The results in Table 2
show that for the scenario of matching HQ SFX to production-grade
video, represented by PSE-Test and ASFX-Test, we can actually re-
lax the pairing constraint, with optimal results for N between 5-10,
suggesting we can sacrifice some diversity in the training data for
the sake of matching more SFX to their top ranked video frame.
Conversely, if our goal is to generalize to in-the-wild noisy data,
represented by AVE-Test, it is preferable to maintain a strict pairing
constraint, indicating diversity is more important for generalizing to
these data than maximizing pairing quality.

Pairing Limit

PSE-Val

PSE-Test



Table 2: Ablation over the pairing constraint in the automatic data-
curation pipeline, using PANNS fine-tuned architecture. P@10.

5. CONCLUSION

In this work we proposed a scalable automatic data curation pipeline
for creating HQ audio-visual data, by leveraging powerful language
and vision-language models. We showed that using the resulting
data to train a contrastive multimodal model significantly outper-
forms baselines on the task of SFX retrieval given an input vi-
sual query, both quantitatively and qualitatively. Furthermore, we
showed that our method generalizes not only to unseen data from
the same setup, but also to “in-the-wild” noisy videos whereas the
baselines, which are trained on noisy videos, fail to generalize to
the HQ data. For future work we plan to extend our system to uti-
lize video clips as queries instead of single video frames, which will
enable us to leverage the motion cues in the video in addition to the
semantic cues contained in a static frame for SFX retrieval.


2023 IEEE Workshop on Applications of Signal Processing to Audio and Acoustics

October 22-25, 2023, New Paltz, NY

[19] A. Nagrani, P. H. Seo, B. Seybold, A. Hauth, S. Manen, C. Sun, and
C. Schmid, “Learning audio-video modalities from image captions,”
in Computer Vision–ECCV 2022: 17th European Conference, Tel Aviv,
Israel, October 23–27, 2022, Proceedings, Part XIV. Springer, 2022,
pp. 407–426.

[20] T. Hayes, S. Zhang, X. Yin, G. Pang, S. Sheng, H. Yang, S. Ge, Q. Hu,
and D. Parikh, “Mugen: A playground for video-audio-text multi-
modal understanding and generation,” in Computer Vision – ECCV
2022, S. Avidan, G. Brostow, M. Ciss´e, G. M. Farinella, and T. Hass-
ner, Eds. Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland, 2022, pp. 431–449.

[21] L. Pr´etet, G. Richard, and G. Peeters, “Cross-modal music-video rec-
ommendation: A study of design choices,” in 2021 International Joint
Conference on Neural Networks (IJCNN).

IEEE, 2021, pp. 1–9.

[22] D. Sur´ıs, C. Vondrick, B. Russell, and J. Salamon, “It’s time for
artistic correspondence in music and video,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), June 2022, pp. 10 564–10 574.

[23] D. McKee, J. Salamon, J. Sivic, and B. Russell, “Language-guided
music recommendation for video via prompt analogies,” in Proceed-
ings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 2023, pp. 14 784–14 793.

[24] D. C.-E. Lin, A. Germanidis, C. Valenzuela, Y. Shi, and N. Martelaro,
“Soundify: Matching sound effects to video,” in 5th NeurIPS Work-
shop on Machine Learning for Creativity and Design, 2021.

[25] A. Radford, J. W. Kim, C. Hallacy, A. Ramesh, G. Goh, S. Agar-
wal, G. Sastry, A. Askell, P. Mishkin, J. Clark, et al., “Learning trans-
ferable visual models from natural language supervision,” in Interna-
tional conference on machine learning. PMLR, 2021, pp. 8748–8763.

[26] K. Zhou, J. Yang, C. C. Loy, and Z. Liu, “Learning to prompt for
vision-language models,” International Journal of Computer Vision,
vol. 130, no. 9, pp. 2337–2348, 2022.

[27] G. Yong, K. Jeon, D. Gil, and G. Lee, “Prompt engineering for zero-
shot and few-shot defect detection and classification using a visual-
language pretrained model,” Computer-Aided Civil and Infrastructure
Engineering, 2022.

[28] T. L. Scao, A. Fan, C. Akiki, E. Pavlick, S. Ili´c, D. Hesslow,
R. Castagn´e, A. S. Luccioni, F. Yvon, M. Gall´e, et al., “Bloom:
A 176b-parameter open-access multilingual language model,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2211.05100, 2022.

[29] A. Guzhov, F. Raue, J. Hees, and A. Dengel, “Esresnet: Environmental
sound classification based on visual domain models,” in 2020 25th In-
ternational Conference on Pattern Recognition (ICPR).
IEEE, 2021,
pp. 4933–4940.

[30] J. Deng, W. Dong, R. Socher, L.-J. Li, K. Li, and L. Fei-Fei, “Ima-
genet: A large-scale hierarchical image database,” in 2009 IEEE con-
ference on computer vision and pattern recognition (CVPR), 2009, pp.

[31] Q. Kong, Y. Cao, T. Iqbal, Y. Wang, W. Wang, and M. D. Plumb-
ley, “Panns: Large-scale pretrained audio neural networks for audio
pattern recognition,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech, and
Language Processing, vol. 28, pp. 2880–2894, 2020.

6. REFERENCES

[1] V. T. Ament, The Foley grail: The art of performing sound for film,

games, and animation. Routledge, 2021.

[2] A. De G¨otzen, E. Sikstr¨om, F. Grani, and S. Serafin, “Real, foley or
synthetic? an evaluation of everyday walking sounds,” Proceedings of
Sound and Music Computing Conference (SMC), 2013.

[3] J. Ngiam, A. Khosla, M. Kim, J. Nam, H. Lee, and A. Y. Ng, “Multi-
modal deep learning,” in Proceedings of the 28th international confer-
ence on machine learning (ICML-11), 2011, pp. 689–696.

[4] D. Ramachandram and G. W. Taylor, “Deep multimodal learning: A
survey on recent advances and trends,” IEEE signal processing maga-
zine, vol. 34, no. 6, pp. 96–108, 2017.

[5] A. v. d. Oord, Y. Li, and O. Vinyals, “Representation learning
with contrastive predictive coding,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1807.03748,

[6] T. Chen, S. Kornblith, M. Norouzi, and G. Hinton, “A simple frame-
work for contrastive learning of visual representations,” in Interna-
tional conference on machine learning. PMLR, 2020, pp. 1597–1607.

[7] A.

Jaiswal, A. R. Babu, M. Z. Zadeh, D. Banerjee,
F. Makedon, “A survey on contrastive self-supervised learning,”
Technologies, vol. 9, no. 1, 2021. [Online]. Available:
https:
//www.mdpi.com/2227-7080/9/1/2

[8] K. Grauman et al., “Ego4d: Around the World in 3,000 Hours of Ego-
centric Video,” in IEEE/CVF Computer Vision and Pattern Recogni-
tion (CVPR), 2022.

[9] R. Hebbar, D. Bose, K. Somandepalli, V. Vijai, and S. Narayanan,
“A dataset for audio-visual sound event detection in movies,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:2302.07315, 2023.

[10] Y. Tian, J. Shi, B. Li, Z. Duan, and C. Xu, “Audio-visual event lo-
calization in unconstrained videos,” in Proceedings of the European
Conference on Computer Vision (ECCV), 2018, pp. 247–263.

[11] H. Chen, W. Xie, A. Vedaldi, and A. Zisserman, “Vggsound: A large-
scale audio-visual dataset,” in ICASSP 2020-2020 IEEE International
Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2020, pp. 721–725.

[12] A. Agostinelli, T. I. Denk, Z. Borsos, J. Engel, M. Verzetti, A. Caillon,
Q. Huang, A. Jansen, A. Roberts, M. Tagliasacchi, et al., “Musiclm:
Generating music from text,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2301.11325, 2023.

[13] H.-H. Wu, P. Seetharaman, K. Kumar, and J. P. Bello, “Wav2clip:
Learning robust audio representations from clip,” in ICASSP 2022-
2022 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal
Processing (ICASSP).

IEEE, 2022, pp. 4563–4567.

[14] A. Guzhov, F. Raue, J. Hees, and A. Dengel, “Audioclip: Extend-
ing clip to image, text and audio,” in ICASSP 2022-2022 IEEE In-
ternational Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing
(ICASSP).

IEEE, 2022, pp. 976–980.

[15] Y. Wu, K. Chen, T. Zhang, Y. Hui, T. Berg-Kirkpatrick, and S. Dub-
nov, “Large-scale contrastive language-audio pretraining with fea-
ture fusion and keyword-to-caption augmentation,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:2211.06687, 2022.

[16] R. Zellers, J. Lu, X. Lu, Y. Yu, Y. Zhao, M. Salehi, A. Kusupati, J. Hes-
sel, A. Farhadi, and Y. Choi, “Merlot reserve: Neural script knowl-
edge through vision and language and sound,” in Proceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), June 2022, pp. 16 375–16 387.

[17] S. Krishnamurthy, “Learning self-supervised audio-visual representa-
tions for sound recommendations,” in Advances in Visual Computing:
16th International Symposium, ISVC 2021, Virtual Event, October 4-
6, 2021, Proceedings, Part II. Springer, 2021, pp. 124–138.

[18] J. F. Gemmeke, D. P. Ellis, D. Freedman, A. Jansen, W. Lawrence,
R. C. Moore, M. Plakal, and M. Ritter, “Audio set: An ontology and
human-labeled dataset for audio events,” in 2017 IEEE international
conference on acoustics, speech and signal processing (ICASSP).
IEEE, 2017, pp. 776–780.

