HumanOmni: A Large Vision-Speech Language
Model for Human-Centric Video Understanding

Jiaxing Zhao1†∗ Qize Yang1∗ Yixing Peng2,1∗ Detao Bai1∗ Shimin Yao1∗ Boyuan Sun3,1
Xiang Chen1 Shenghao Fu2,1 Weixuan Chen1 Xihan Wei1 Liefeng Bo1
2ISEE, Sun Yat-sen University
zjx244036@alibaba-inc.com
https://github.com/HumanMLLM/HumanOmni

3VCIP, CS, Nankai University

1Tongyi Lab, Alibaba Group

Abstract

In human-centric scenes, the ability to simultaneously understand visual and au-
ditory information is crucial. While recent omni models can process multiple
modalities, they generally lack effectiveness in human-centric scenes due to the
absence of large-scale, specialized datasets and non-targeted architectures. In
this work, we developed HumanOmni, the industry’s first human-centric Omni-
multimodal large language model. We constructed a dataset containing over 2.4
million human-centric video clips with detailed captions and more than 14 million
instructions, facilitating the understanding of diverse human-centric scenes. Hu-
manOmni includes three specialized branches for understanding different types of
scenes. It adaptively fuses features from these branches based on user instructions,
significantly enhancing visual understanding in scenes centered around individuals.
Moreover, HumanOmni integrates audio features to ensure a comprehensive under-
standing of environments and individuals. Our experiments validate HumanOmni’s
advanced capabilities in handling human-centric scenes across a variety of tasks,
including emotion recognition, facial expression description, and action under-
standing. Our model will be open-sourced to facilitate further development and
collaboration within both academia and industry.

Introduction

In the era of rapid digital and intelligent development, understanding human-centric scenes has
become increasingly critical. These scenes extend beyond video chat [26] to encompass education,
healthcare, social interactions, and entertainment. In these human-centric scenes, vision and speech
are typically present simultaneously. For certain tasks, both visual and auditory information provide
significant benefits, such as in emotion recognition [9, 11, 32, 66] and speaker-specific speech
recognition. Speaker-specific speech recognition builds upon automatic speech recognition by
incorporating additional description about the speaker. We are currently defining this task and
collecting such a dataset, with plans to release it in the next version of our work.

Current methods predominantly focus on Vision-Language models [1, 16, 24, 25, 30, 36, 37, 43, 55–
57, 67], which effectively handle visual and textual information but generally lack the capability to
process audio inputs. This limitation results in an incomplete understanding of scenes. In recent
years, some omni models [17, 18, 28, 51, 54] have been proposed to address multiple modalities,
including visual, auditory, and textual data. However, these models often emphasize generic scenes
and lack targeted training for human-centric scenes. Additionally, they do not incorporate specialized
model designs, leading to weaker performance in understanding such scenarios.

*Equal contribution
†Project Leader

Tech report. Preprint.

 
Moreover, there are specialized models designed specifically for specific tasks that have incorporated
both audio and video inputs. These models have demonstrated significant effectiveness in their
targeted applications. However, their specificity limits their generalizability. Due to their narrow
focus and reliance on specific datasets or conditions, these specialized models perform poorly when
applied to broader, more diverse human-centric scenes.

In this work, we present HumanOmni, a large vision-speech language model for human-centric video
unstanding. The key feature of HumanOmni is its ability to simultaneously process vision and speech
information in human-centric scenes. It achieves excellent performance in various human-centric
scenes. Our contributions can be summarized in three key areas:

• We have constructed a dataset containing over 2.4M human-centric video clips, providing
rich and detailed information about individuals. We provide over 14M instruction data for
visual pretraining. Additionally, we have manually annotated 50K video clips with more than
100K instructions related to emotion recognition, facial description, and speaker-specific
speech recognition for visual fine-tuning and cross-modal interaction integration. This
comprehensive data enables our model to better understand individual characteristics and
the human-centric scenes.

• We use three branches to handle face-related, body-related, and interaction-related scenes
separately in HumanOmni. An instruction-driven fusion module then integrates features
from these branches. HumanOmni dynamically adjusts its fusion weights based on input
instructions, ensuring accurate responses across various scenes.

• HumanOmni can simultaneously understand vision and speech, allowing for a more compre-
hensive understanding of complex scenes. Our experiments show that HumanOmni achieves
state-of-the-art performance on various tasks, outperforming existing Vision-Language
models, Omni models, and even specialized proprietary models in their respective domains.
Additionally, HumanOmni excels in audio-only tasks like automatic speech recognition,
delivering results comparable to leading models in this field.

2 Our Model

In Fig. 1, we illustrate the HumanOmni pipeline, which is capable of processing a multimodal input
encompassing textual, auditory and visual data.

For visual component, facial expressions, body movements, individual attributes, and interactions
with the environment are crucial elements for understanding human-centric video content. Different
types of features are critical for different tasks; for instance, emotion analysis heavily relies on facial
expressions, action recognition focuses more on body movements, and social interaction analysis
depends on interactions between individuals and their environment or objects. To address these
diverse requirements, we have designed three specialized branches: the Face-related Branch, Body-
related Branch, and Interaction-related Branch. These branches capture distinct features to enhance
the model’s performance across various human-related tasks. Leveraging advanced visual encoders
SigLIP [58] and large language models Qwen2.5 [45], which exhibit strong feature extraction and
representation capabilities, our branch architectures remain flexible and do not require task-specific
modifications. To guide each branch to focus on specific tasks, we train them using different video
clips and instructions, ensuring that each branch specializes in extracting different types of features,
as detailed in the training section.

In particular, while the three branches share a generic architecture, they differ in their visual projector
components. The face-related branch employs a detail-sensitive projector MLP2xGeLU [23] to better
capture subtle facial changes. In contrast, the body-related branch and interaction-related branch
utilize a spatial-temporal projector STC [12], handling continuous actions and interaction scenes.
Importantly, despite using two different types of projectors, the features derived from both approaches
remain spatially and temporally aligned, ensuring consistency and effectiveness in feature fusion.

The features from these three branches are complementary to some extent. However, directly concate-
nating them would lead to an excessive number of visual tokens, imposing additional computational
and analytical burdens on the LLM. While simply summing the features is one approach, we have
devised a more sophisticated method for feature fusion. Inspired by LLAVA-Octopus [65], we use
the rich information contained in the user instructions to dynamically adjust the weighting of features

Figure 1: Pipeline of HumanOmni. HumanOmni is a vision-speech language model that focus
on human-centric scenes. For the visual component, we pre-trained three distinct branches using
separate data. The features from these branches are fused based on user instructions. HumanOmni
also supports audio input, enhancing its ability to fully understand complex human-centric scenes.

from each branch. For example, when the instruction pertains to emotion recognition, the model
places greater emphasis on features from the face-related branch; for interaction scenes, it prioritizes
the interaction-related branch.

Specifically, to process user instructions, we employ BERT [15] for encoding the commands. We
focus on the [CLS] token produced by BERT, which encapsulates the semantic essence of the
instruction. We chose BERT as our text encoder due to its robust pre-training, enabling it to capture
deep semantic information from text. BERT utilizes a bidirectional transformer architecture to encode
input text, with the [CLS] token effectively summarizing the semantics of the entire sentence. This
provides a strong foundation for subsequent weight generation processes.

Next, we introduce two MLPs for generating feature weights. The first MLP receives the [CLS]
token as input and, through multiple layers of neural network processing, produces intermediate
feature representations that capture high-level semantic details from the instructions. The second
MLP then takes these intermediate representations as input and further refines them to generate final
weight values, each corresponding to one of the visual projectors. These generated weights are used
to dynamically adjust and combine the visual features extracted by the three projectors, selecting
the most suitable features for the task at hand. Suppose the three projectors extract features denoted
as F1, F2 and F3, and the generated weights are w1, w2 and w3, respectively. Then, the final visual
representation F is given by:

F = w1 · F1 + w2 · F2 + w3 · F3.

This instruction-driven feature fusion approach enhances the model’s flexibility and adaptability
while ensuring efficient resource utilization. It allows the model to automatically adjust its focus on
different types of features based on task requirements.

For the auditory component, we follow [54] utilizing the audio preprocessor and encoder from
Whisper-large-v3 [40] to process audio data. Specifically, the audio input first undergoes preliminary
processing through the audio preprocessor, generating a format suitable for encoding. Subsequently,
the preprocessed audio data is encoded using Whisper’s encoder, extracting robust audio features.

To ensure that audio features can be effectively integrated with visual and textual features in the same
domain, we employ MLP2xGeLU as the projector. This projector maps the audio features into the
text domain.

For the text, we directly used the corresponding text encoder module from the LLM to encode the
text. Consequently, the audio tokens, along with visual and text tokens, are concatenated within
a unified representation space using specific tokens to distinguish between features from different
modalities, and then fed into the LLM decoder for further processing.

Face Tracking ModulevideoPretrained Large Language ModelText InstructionTexttokenVisualtokenFacialVisualEncoderTextEncoderFacial branchVisualEncoderBody branchBody Tracking ModuleBodyVisualEncoderAdaptive ProjectorAdaptive ProjectorAdaptive ProjectorAudio EncoderAudio ProjectorCommon branchAudiotokenAudioLong Video ProjectorTextInstructionImage-based ProjectorSpatial-temporal ProjectorText EncoderProjector Fusion GateAdaptiveProjector𝝎𝟏𝝎𝟑𝝎𝟏𝝎𝟐𝝎𝟑𝝎𝟐𝝎𝟏𝝎𝟐𝝎𝟑Projector Fusion GateTextInstructionText EncoderFrameProjectorProjector Fusion GateSpatial-temporal ProjectorLong Video Projector𝝎𝟏𝝎𝟑𝝎𝟐Body branchvideoPretrained Large Language ModelText InstructionTexttokenVisualtokenTextEncoderVisualEncoderAudio EncoderAudio ProjectorAudiotokenAudio𝝎𝟏𝝎𝟐𝝎𝟑Projector Fusion GateVisualProjectorVisualProjectorVisualProjectorVideo📢“对不起”（I’m sorry）AudioVisual-TextMLLMsHumanOmniInstruction[angry/shock][sad][angry/shock]Instruction: What emotion is the character in the video?
Figure 2: Data processing flow. We employ scene detection and segmentation to divide the video
into clips to prevent unnatural temporal changes caused by instantaneous scene transitions. Then,
the clips with relatively low resolution are removed, and the key frames detection algorithms are
applied, which helps to quantify the temporal changes in clips. To further improve learning efficiency,
we generate brief captions based on advanced multimodal model, and eliminate the clips similar
in contexts. Finally, in addition to being automatically annotated with human and face bounding
boxes, the remaining video clips will be processed by several state-of-the-art multimodal models
to generate detailed captions. Subsequently, a large language model will be used to synthesize the
common content across these captions, while filtering out unique content that may result from model
hallucinations.

3 Human-Centric Data Collection

Although there are currently many multimodal annotated datasets, including OCR and visual naviga-
tion, there is a lack of a large-scale human-centric dataset with fine-grained annotations, limiting the
development of human-centric video understanding. Based on the existing large-scale video datasets,
we have carefully designed a data processing workflow and present the largest human-centric dataset
for comprehensive human-centric video understanding.

3.1 Video Collection

We form our dataset based on the existing web-scale dataset: Panda-70M [10] which covers various
scenes and contents. Despite initial processing and caption generation, much useful information,
particularly related to human subjects, remains underutilized. Existing research has demonstrated
that data quality is crucial for model performance; simply increasing the quantity of low-quality data
does not lead to significant performance improvements. Therefore, we have further optimized our
dataset to create a human-centric collection with the following characteristics: high video resolution
(above 480P), rich temporal dynamics, inclusion of face and body detection bounding boxes, and
captions verified through a dual-check process. Our data processing includes the following step and
an illustration is in Fig. 2.

- Stage 1: Temporal processing. Temporal dynamics is a key feature distinguishing video data
from static images. Videos lacking temporal changes offer limited learning value, while those
with excessive and unrealistic temporal variations can confuse models. To extract naturally smooth
temporal changes in the video, we employed scene recognition algorithms to identify multiple scenes
within videos and segment them into clips, as shown in the center of Fig. 2. Scene detection and
segmentation avoid drastic changes from multiple different perspectives in the video clip. Besides, it
ensures that clips with intense temporal changes are broken down into shorter segments, which can
then be filtered out.

Furthermore, we extracted keyframes for each clip to find the temporal variations. The clips with
minimal temporal changes would have very few keyframes identified, allowing us to screen out such

rawvideo…Scene detection and segmentation………Clip 1Clip 2Clip 3Resolution filter (480P) & key frames detectionKey frames in Clip 1:…Brief caption by Qwen2-VL……Clip 1: A woman displaying a curling iron in the bathroomClip 3:A woman in a restaurant with many people …Text similarity…Human & face detection…Clip 1QWen2-VLInternVL-2QWen2.5: Final captionDouble-check detailed captionRedundancyeliminationFine grained annotation
Figure 3: Instruction Data Generation Process for face-related, body-related, and interaction-related
branches. We generate structured instruction data by leveraging Qwen2.5 with specifically designed
prompts to process the detailed captions we have previously obtained.

videos based on the number of detected keyframes. We also removed clips with resolutions below
480P to enhance the overall quality of the data.

- Stage 2: Reducing Redundancy. To improve learning efficiency, we eliminated redundant video
segments with similar contexts or meanings, reducing data redundancy as shown in the bottom of
Fig. 2. Specifically, we used an advanced multimodal model, QWen2-VL-72B [44], to generate
brief descriptions for each clip, focusing on the general contextual information. By calculating the
semantic similarity between these brief descriptions using language model, we were able to filter out
clips with high semantic similarity and repeated patterns.

- Stage 3: Fine-grained Annotations. For the remaining data, we generated detailed descriptions
using the advanced multimodal model (QWen2-VL-72B) to maximize the utility of the data as
shown on the right side of Fig. 2. Given the well-known issue of hallucination in large models,
we implemented a dual verification method to eliminate hallucinations from detailed captions.
Specifically, we used an additional multimodal large model [49] to generate multiple detailed
descriptions for each clip. Given that the content of hallucinations is not related to the actual content
of in the video, we hypothesize that hallucinations generated by different models are distinct. Hence,
we heuristically employed a large language model (QWen2.5-72B [45]) to summarize the common
points across the different detailed descriptions, ensuring the accuracy of the final descriptions and

Caption: In the video, the character exhibits a sense of happiness and relaxation. His facial expressions and body language convey satisfaction with the exercise, indicating a positive attitude towards physical fitness and personal challenge. His face appears relaxed, with a smooth, uncreased forehead. His eyes are bright and focused, and a subtle smile on his lips.The character is dressed in workout gear that includes a black tank top, black shorts, and vibrant red sneakers. He hangs from the pull-up bar with fully extended arms, setting himself ready for the exercise. He skillfully performs hanging leg raises by bringing his knees toward his chest.Regradinginteractions, he begins by approaching the pull-up bar, gripping it with both hands to ensure a secure hold. Once ready, he lifts himself into position, hanging with fully extended arms. Throughout the exercise, his movements are fluid and controlled, indicating a practiced routine.{"Face-related": [  { "emotion": {   "question": "What emotion is the character in the video expressing?",    "answer": " Happiness and relaxation." } },  { "expression": {   "question": "How does the character's expression convey his emotional state?",    "answer": "His facial expressions show satisfaction with the exercise, indicating a positive attitude. "} }, { "appearance": {   "question": "Describe the appearance of the character's face.",   "answer": "The character's face is relaxed, with bright, focused eyes and a subtle smile." } } ], "Body-related": [  { "appearance": {    "question": "Describe the character's outfit.",   "answer": "The character is dressed in workout gear that includes a black tank top, black shorts, and vibrant red sneakers." } },  { "pose": {   "question": " Describe the character’s pose.",   "answer": ”He hangs from the pull-up bar with fully extended arms, setting himself up." } },  { "action": {   "question": "Describe the character’s action.",   "answer": ”He skillfully performs hanging leg raises by bringing his knees toward his chest}], "Interaction-related": [  { " Interaction ": {   "question": "Describe the interactions between the character and the environment.",   "answer": "The character interacts with the pull-up bar by approaching it and gripping it securely with both hands. He then lifts himself into a hanging position with fully extended arms. While hanging, he performs leg raises, bringing his knees to his chest, using the bar for leverage. His movements are fluid and controlled, indicating familiarity with the equipment. Throughout the exercise, his relaxed expression and subtle smile suggest a comfortable and positive engagement with t he environment." } } ] }
Figure 4: Illustration of the data annotation process. We annotate the data from the perspectives of
Emotion, Speaker-specific speech, and Facial detailed description.

effectively removing hallucinations. Finally, we apply advanced detection algorithms to detect the
persons and the faces in the video clip, providing rich face and body detection bounding boxes. These
bounding boxes enable fine-grained alignment between the human-centric visual content and other
annotations (e.g., detailed caption).

Through the aforementioned steps, we collected 2.4M human-centric video clips with captions. We
then utilize Qwen2.5-72B to generate structured data from detail captions for the pre-training of
different branches, as illustrated in the Fig. 3. We systematically constructed instruction pairs for the
face branch, body branch, and interaction branch by utilizing the structured data.

Instructions Generation

For the face-related branch, we filtered out videos that did not include descriptions of faces, emotions,
or expressions. This resulted in a dataset of 1.78M videos. We then created detailed instruction pairs
for facial features, emotions, and expressions, totaling 4.12M instruction pairs. These pairs were used
to train the face-related branch.

For the body-related branch, we applied a similar method. We filtered out videos that lacked
information on human appearance attributes, actions, or poses, leaving us with 2.21M videos. We
then created specific instruction pairs for human appearance attributes, actions, and poses, resulting
in a total of 5.75M instruction pairs. These pairs were used to train the body-related branch.

Finally, for the interaction-related module, we created specific instruction pairs for interactions with
the external environment. Additionally, to ensure that our caption information was fully utilized,
we incorporated detailed captions as instruction data in this module. This process resulted in a total
of 4.8M instruction pairs, including 2.4M interaction instruction pairs and 2.4M detailed caption
instruction pairs. These pairs were used to train the interaction-related module.

All of these instructions were used during the pre-training phase. The instructions come from captions
that we double-checked, ensuring higher accuracy. By reasonably segmenting and filtering video
clips, we also improved video quality, which helps the model better understand human-centric scenes.

Additionally, we manually annotated a subset of our human-centric video data by randomly sampling
50K video clips containing both vision and speech. These clips were annotated for emotion recogni-
tion, detailed facial expression descriptions, and speaker-specific speech annotations. Due to varying
annotation difficulties, we completed emotion annotations for all 50K videos, detailed facial expres-
sion descriptions for 5K videos, and speaker-specific speech annotations for 20K videos, resulting
in a total of 75K instruction pairs. The process is illustrated in Fig. 4. These annotated data were
used in the fine-tuning of the visual component, further enhancing its feature extraction capabilities.
Because these data include both visual and speech components and are manually annotated for high
quality, they were also utilized in Cross-Modal Interaction Integration.

4 Training

To build a multimodal large model capable of accurately understanding human-centric video in-
formation and possessing cross-modal interaction capabilities, our training strategy is divided into

Manual CorrectionManual ConsolidationEmotion:HappyPreliminary Annotations: This video showcases the emotional changes of a young man with fair skin, short light brown hair, well-defined facial features, and a black top. At the beginning of the video, his eyes are slightly squinted, with relaxed eyelids, expressing a sense of ease and pleasure. As the video progresses, the corners of his eyes gradually lift, and his eyes widen, radiating a feeling of joy and excitement. His eyebrows also rise, particularly the right one, which lifts higher, and the wrinkles between his brows deepen slightly, indicating a sense of surprise and happiness. His mouth transitions from a smile to a hearty laugh, with his upper lip lifting to reveal white teeth, and his jaw relaxing and moving downward. The corners of his mouth pull up noticeably, and his entire facial muscles work together to convey this joyful emotion, appearing very natural and relaxed.In the middle of the video, his head tilts slightly to the right and then returns to an upright position, seemingly expressing a sense of relaxation and ease. As the video continues, his expression takes on a hint of playfulness, with his upper lip lifting slightly, his lower lip gently pulled inward, and his mouth closing slightly, forming a smile that he can hardly suppress. The fine lines at the corners of his eyes become more pronounced, further enhancing the joyful atmosphere. Finally, his head tilts forward slightly, his gaze remains bright and full of joy, and his overall expression shifts from relaxed to happy, ultimately immersing him in a broad, joyful smile.Facial detailed description: This video shows an elderly man with gray hair that is short and neatly kept, white eyebrows, and wrinkles on his face and forehead.The man looks at the camera with a smile, his mouth corners upturned, teeth showing, and eyebrows raised.Video FramesSpeaker-specific speech: The elderly man say: “Why not?”Annotation : This video shows an elderly man with gray hair that is short and neatly kept, white eyebrows, and wrinkles on his face and forehead.At the beginning of the video, his eyes are wide open, and his mouth is slightly parted, with a gaze that conveys an inviting tone, as if asking the other person if they would like to join him for a drink. His eyebrows are slightly raised, expressing a sense of [pleasure and friendliness].As the video progresses, the corners of his mouth pull upward, forming a warm smile that reveals some of his teeth, indicating [sincerity and warmth]. His upper lip is slightly lifted, and his lower lip is slightly relaxed, with his mouth slightly open, suggesting he is speaking or laughing. At the same time, his eyebrows lower and then gently arch upward, giving an impression of kindness and approachability. His facial expression gradually shifts from [initial anticipation] to [joy and enthusiasm], reflecting his [eagerness and enjoyment] of the impending interaction or activity.The man looks at the camera with a smile, his mouth corners upturned, teeth showing, and eyebrows raised.VideoAnnotatorAnnotatorAnnotator
three stages. Initially, we focus on pretraining and fine-tuning the model’s visual abilities using a
substantial amount of human-centric video data, enabling the model to learn rich spatio-temporal
feature representations and patterns of human behavior, thereby achieving a deep understanding of
human-related details in video content. Next, we conduct standalone audio capability training with
audio data, allowing the model to recognize and interpret speech. Finally, we perform cross-modal
interaction training by integrating auditory and visual data, enhancing the model’s ability to process
and associate information across different modalities, ensuring it can provide accurate understanding
and responses in complex multimedia environments.

4.1 Visual Capability Construction

Our model’s visual component includes three specialized branches: face-related branch, body-related
branch, and interaction-related branch. For each branch, we generated specific instruction data as
described in the above section. This instruction data was used to pre-train each branch, during which
only the projector parameters were updated. The aim was to keep all other parameters identical across
the three branches to facilitate integration during fine-tuning.

During fine-tuning, we used manually annotated data consisting of 50K emotion recognition instruc-
tions and 5K facial expression description instructions, along with general Oryx [33] fine-tuning data.
We integrated the three branches using an instruction-driven fusion module. In this process, we froze
the parameters of the visual encoder and BERT, while training the parameters of the three projectors,
the large language model, and two MLPs that generate the fusion weights.

During this phase, even though some of the videos contain both auditory and visual information, we
only utilized the visual part.

4.2 Auditory Capability Development

In this stage, we aim to align the modalities between text and audio, enhancing the model’s ability to
understand and respond to audio in various contexts. We exclusively sample audio data from tasks
such as automatic audio captioning, automatic speech recognition, and sound event classification,
resulting in a total of approximately 18,000 hours of data used to train the audio projector.

Specifically, we utilize the WavCaps [35] dataset, which provides around 7,500 hours of annotated
audio, offering detailed captions that describe the audio events. This dataset plays a crucial role
in helping the model understand and generate descriptive audio analyses. We also select multiple
comprehensive ASR datasets including WenetSpeech [59], GigaSpeech [6], CommonVoice15 [4],
and LibriSpeech [39]. These datasets cover extensive and diverse speech data, which are important
in training models for speech recognition tasks. For SEC, the VGGSound [7] dataset is chosen due
to its extensive collection of audio events. For the different tasks, we designed multiple question
templates to prompt the model in generating captions, performing speech recognition, and classifying
sounds, which in turn enables the model to thoroughly understand and process human-related audio
information.

Task Type

Datasets
WenetSpeech [59], GigaSpeech [6],
CommonVoice15 [4], LibriSpeech [39]
VGGSound [7]

Duration (hours)
~7.5k


Table 1: Details of audio datasets for training audio projectors.

We use the encoder and the audio preprocessor from the Whisper-large-v3 [40] as the audio encoder
and processor. Specifically, We resample each audio to a frequency of 16kHz and convert the
waveform into 128-channel mel-spectrogram using a window size of 25ms and a hop size of 10ms.
To reduce the token length of the audio, we introduce an average pooling layer with a stride of 3,
resulting in each audio frame from the audio encoder corresponding to a 60ms segment of the original
audio. We use two linear layers to connect this to the LLM decoder. Additionally, we wrap each
audio embedding with a pair of special tokens to indicate the start and end positions of the audio
embedding.

Method

Modalities

Specialized models for emotion-related tasks

Wav2Vec2.0 [5]
HuBERT [46]
DFER-CLIP [66]

InternLM-XComposer-2.5-OL [61]
GPT4-O [37]
HumanOmni









Table 2: Results on DFEW and MAFW.

4.3 Cross-Modal Interaction Integration

To enhance our model’s video-audio interaction capabilities, we synthesized a series of visual-
auditory cross-modal interaction data. For audio data, we collected a diverse dataset covering various
audio tasks, including samples from the audio pre-training phase, emotion recognition datasets,
and audio question-answering datasets, totaling 7,000 hours of audio. For video data, we used all
the aforementioned manually annotated 20K speaker-specific speech recognition data, as well as
the instruction data used for visual fine-tuning. Additionally, we incorporate multi-modal emotion
recognition datasets, converting classification labels with GPT-4o into a question-answer format,
which includes DFEW [19], MAFW [32], CAER [21], and FERV39k [48].

To better distinguish features from different modalities, we encapsulate the embeddings of audio
and visual data using distinct special tokens. We initialize the visual projectors and LLM decoder
with parameters obtained from the Visual Capability Construction phase, while the audio projector is
initialized with parameters from the Auditory Capability Development phase. During this training
phase, we jointly fine-tune the LLM decoder, all projectors and two multi-layer perceptrons (MLPs)
that generate the fusion weights to optimize their performance in handling multi-modal inputs.

To ensure that our HumanOmni can understand both scenes that include visual and auditory informa-
tion and those with only visual input, for each video that contains audio, we also generate a version
without audio for training. The model determines which modality to use based on special tokens in
the instructions. Additionally, if either the auditory or visual part is missing, we fill in with default
tokens to ensure consistent and complete inputs. This design allows the model to maintain stable
performance across different modality combinations.

5 Experiments

We evaluated HumanOmni’s ability to understand audio-visual inputs on several human-related tasks,
such as emotion recognition, facial expression description, and action understanding. We also tested
HumanOmni’s performance on speech recognition using only audio inputs. Finally, we explored how
different modalities affect model performance across these human-centric tasks.

5.1 Evaluations on Emotion Recognition

Both DFEW and MAFW are video-clip-based datasets designed for Dynamic Facial Emotion Recogni-
tion task, with DFEW providing a 7-dimensional expression distribution vector and MAFW providing
an 11-dimensional expression distribution vector for each video clip.

Method

Correctness Detail Context Temporal CIDEr Rouge-L AutoDQ

VideoLLaMA [60]
VideoChat [26]
VideoChat2 [26]

InternLM-XComposer-2.5-OL [61]
HumanOmni

Vision large language model
Omni-modality large language model






Table 3: Comparison of different methods on DFEC [64] benchmark.

As shown in Tab. 2, while VLM methods possess broader capabilities, they still exhibit a performance
gap compared to specialized methods in dynamic emotion recognition tasks. In this task, both video
and audio information play crucial roles, which is where the HumanOmni model excels. Experimental
results demonstrate that HumanOmni significantly outperforms existing video-language multimodal
models, audio-language multimodal large models, recently proposed omni model and specialized
methods in this field. Moreover, it also shows a clear advantage over recently proposed Omni models
for emotion recognition.

5.2 Evaluations on Facial Expression

Facial expressions refer to external features displayed through facial muscle movements, such as
smiling or frowning, while emotions denote internal emotional states, such as happiness or sadness.
Although facial expressions are one way to convey emotions, not all expressions directly correspond
to specific emotional states, and the same expression can represent different emotions in various
contexts. In this evaluation, we utilized the recently proposed DFEC dataset for facial expression
description and adopted the evaluation methods recommended by DFEC.

In Tab. 3, our experimental results show that the HumanOmni model with combined video and audio
input not only outperforms other open-source models but also surpasses the FaceTrack-MM [64]
method proposed in DFEC, achieving superior performance in facial expression description tasks.

5.3 Evaluations on Actions Understanding

MVBench is a comprehensive video understanding benchmark covering 20 tasks organized in the
form of multiple-choice questions. From this extensive suite of challenges, we select a specialized
benchmark focusing on human-related subtasks, demonstrating in Tab. 4. Specifically, we have
selected six tasks most pertinent to human behavior analysis: Action Sequence (AS), Action Antonym
(AA), Unexpected Action (UA), Object Interaction (OI), Action Count (AC), and Fine-grained Action

Method

Otter-V [22]
mPLUG-Owl-V [55]

Omni-modality large language model

VITA [18]
InternLM-XComposer-2.5-OL [61]
HumanOmni

Table 4: Results on MVBench. We select a subset of human-related subtasks from MVbench.

(FA). This refined selection aims to provide a focused evaluation framework for the nuanced aspects
of human activity recognition within video content.

The experimental results show that on the MVBench dataset, HumanOmni significantly outperforms
nearly all mainstream methods with the same parameter size, with the exception of a few methods
that utilized the full MVBench dataset.

5.4 Evaluations on Speech Recognition

Speech recognition capability is a crucial component of human-computer interaction. To demonstrate
the advantages of our approach within the domain of speech recognition, Tab. 5 presents results
from four widely recognized benchmarks in this field: LibriSpeech [39], WenetSpeech [59], and
Fleurs [14]. These benchmarks are specifically chosen for their distinct characteristics and contribu-
tions to evaluating speech recognition systems across different languages and contexts. LibriSpeech
focuses on English speech recognition, while Fleurs is dedicated to evaluating cross-lingual speech
representations. From the table, it can be seen that our method is leading among the current Omni
models. However, compared to proprietary speech recognition approaches, current audio-visual
methods can still be improved.

Method

Librispeech
dev-clean | dev-other |






Omni-modality large language model

Baichuan-Omni [28]
VITA [18]
Mini-Omni2 [52]



Table 5: Results on Audio Benchmarks.

Fleurs
en | zh



5.5 Explorations of Modality Effects

Here we explored modalities efects on human-centric task performance. In Table 6, we evaluated
HumanOmni’s performance on emotion recognition, facial expression description, and action under-
standing under different input modalities. As expected, in the emotion recognition task, single-modal
configurations (using only video or only audio) performed notably lower compared to the multi-modal
configuration that used both video and audio inputs. For facial expression description, even when
using only video input, the HumanOmni model maintained excellent performance, only slightly
lower than with combined inputs. This is because facial expression recognition primarily relies
on visual information, with limited added value from audio data. In the action understanding task,
where actions are mainly represented by visual content, the contribution of audio was even more
limited, as confirmed by our experimental results. These results demonstrate HumanOmni’s robust
performance across different input modalities. Additionally, they show that for all tasks, the combined
visual-auditory input consistently achieved the best results, underscoring the necessity of joint audio
and video inputs in human-centric scenes.

Input Modality DFEW-WAR MAFW-WAR DFEC-AutoDQ MVBench-Avg

Video Only
Audio Only
Video-Audio




Table 6: Comparison of HumanOmni on Different Input Modalities

6 Conclusion

In this work, we developed HumanOmni, the first human-centric multi-modal large language model.
We constructed a dataset containing over 2.4 million human-centric video clips annotated with more
than 14 million detailed captions and instructions to facilitate the understanding of diverse human-
centered scenes. HumanOmni features a specialized architecture with three branches: a face-related
branch, a body-related branch, and an interaction-related branch. Each branch addresses specific
categories of human-centric scenes. By using user instructions to guide the adaptive fusion of features
from these branches, HumanOmni significantly enhances its robustness across various scenarios.
Additionally, HumanOmni supports joint audio and video input, enabling a more comprehensive
understanding of scenes. We evaluated HumanOmni’s performance through extensive experiments
on multiple human-centric tasks, demonstrating its effectiveness in understanding complex human-
centered interactions. To promote community-driven development and further research, we will
open-source our code and model.

References

[1] Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jeff Donahue, Pauline Luc, Antoine Miech, Iain Barr, Yana Hasson,
Karel Lenc, Arthur Mensch, Katherine Millican, Malcolm Reynolds, et al. Flamingo: a visual
language model for few-shot learning. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,

[2] Keyu An, Qian Chen, Chong Deng, Zhihao Du, Changfeng Gao, Zhifu Gao, Yue Gu, Ting
He, Hangrui Hu, Kai Hu, et al. Funaudiollm: Voice understanding and generation foundation
models for natural interaction between humans and llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.04051,

[3] Anthropic. Claude-3.5, 2024. 9

[4] R. Ardila, M. Branson, K. Davis, M. Henretty, M. Kohler, J. Meyer, R. Morais, L. Saunders,
F. M. Tyers, and G. Weber. Common voice: A massively-multilingual speech corpus. In
Proceedings of the 12th Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2020),
pages 4211–4215, 2020. 7

[5] Alexei Baevski, Yuhao Zhou, Abdelrahman Mohamed, and Michael Auli. wav2vec 2.0:
A framework for self-supervised learning of speech representations. Advances in neural
information processing systems, 33:12449–12460, 2020. 8

[6] Guoguo Chen, Shuzhou Chai, Guanbo Wang, Jiayu Du, Wei-Qiang Zhang, Chao Weng, Dan
Su, Daniel Povey, Jan Trmal, Junbo Zhang, et al. Gigaspeech: An evolving, multi-domain asr
corpus with 10,000 hours of transcribed audio. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.06909, 2021. 7

[7] Honglie Chen, Weidi Xie, Andrea Vedaldi, and Andrew Zisserman. Vggsound: A large-scale
In ICASSP 2020-2020 IEEE International Conference on Acoustics,

audio-visual dataset.
Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), pages 721–725. IEEE, 2020. 7

[8] Lin Chen, Xilin Wei, Jinsong Li, Xiaoyi Dong, Pan Zhang, Yuhang Zang, Zehui Chen, Haodong
Duan, Bin Lin, Zhenyu Tang, et al. Sharegpt4video: Improving video understanding and
generation with better captions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.04325, 2024. 9

[9] Ling-Hao Chen, Shunlin Lu, Ailing Zeng, Hao Zhang, Benyou Wang, Ruimao Zhang, and Lei
Zhang. Motionllm: Understanding human behaviors from human motions and videos. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2405.20340, 2024. 1

[10] Tsai-Shien Chen, Aliaksandr Siarohin, Willi Menapace, Ekaterina Deyneka, Hsiang-wei Chao,
Byung Eun Jeon, Yuwei Fang, Hsin-Ying Lee, Jian Ren, Ming-Hsuan Yang, and Sergey
Tulyakov. Panda-70m: Captioning 70m videos with multiple cross-modality teachers. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2024.

[11] Zebang Cheng, Zhi-Qi Cheng, Jun-Yan He, Jingdong Sun, Kai Wang, Yuxiang Lin, Zheng Lian,
Xiaojiang Peng, and Alexander Hauptmann. Emotion-llama: Multimodal emotion recognition
and reasoning with instruction tuning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.11161, 2024. 1, 8

[12] Zesen Cheng, Sicong Leng, Hang Zhang, Yifei Xin, Xin Li, Guanzheng Chen, Yongxin Zhu,
Wenqi Zhang, Ziyang Luo, Deli Zhao, and Lidong Bing. Videollama 2: Advancing spatial-
temporal modeling and audio understanding in video-llms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.07476,

[13] Yunfei Chu, Jin Xu, Qian Yang, Haojie Wei, Xipin Wei, Zhifang Guo, Yichong Leng, Yuanjun
Lv, Jinzheng He, Junyang Lin, Chang Zhou, and Jingren Zhou. Qwen2-audio technical report.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.10759, 2024. 10

[14] Alexis Conneau, Min Ma, Simran Khanuja, Yu Zhang, Vera Axelrod, Siddharth Dalmia, Jason
Riesa, Clara Rivera, and Ankur Bapna. Fleurs: Few-shot learning evaluation of universal
representations of speech. arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.12446, 2022. 10

[15] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and Kristina Toutanova. Bert: Pre-training of
deep bidirectional transformers for language understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805,

[16] Xiaoyi Dong, Pan Zhang, Yuhang Zang, Yuhang Cao, Bin Wang, Linke Ouyang, Xilin Wei,
Songyang Zhang, Haodong Duan, Maosong Cao, et al.
Internlm-xcomposer2: Mastering
free-form text-image composition and comprehension in vision-language large model. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2401.16420, 2024. 1

[17] Qingkai Fang, Shoutao Guo, Yan Zhou, Zhengrui Ma, Shaolei Zhang, and Yang Feng.
arXiv preprint

Llama-omni: Seamless speech interaction with large language models.
arXiv:2409.06666, 2024. 1

[18] Chaoyou Fu, Haojia Lin, Zuwei Long, Yunhang Shen, Meng Zhao, Yifan Zhang, Shaoqi Dong,
Xiong Wang, Di Yin, Long Ma, Xiawu Zheng, Ran He, Rongrong Ji, Yunsheng Wu, Caifeng
Shan, and Xing Sun. Vita: Towards open-source interactive omni multimodal llm, 2024. 1, 8, 9,

[19] Xingxun Jiang, Yuan Zong, Wenming Zheng, Chuangao Tang, Wanchuang Xia, Cheng Lu,
and Jiateng Liu. Dfew: A large-scale database for recognizing dynamic facial expressions in
the wild. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM International Conference on Multimedia, pages

[20] Peng Jin, Ryuichi Takanobu, Caiwan Zhang, Xiaochun Cao, and Li Yuan. Chat-univi: Unified
visual representation empowers large language models with image and video understanding.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.08046, 2023. 9

[21] Jiyoung Lee, Seungryong Kim, Sunok Kim, Jungin Park, and Kwanghoonn Sohn. Context-
aware emotion recognition networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference
on computer vision, 2019. 8

[22] Bo Li, Yuanhan Zhang, Liangyu Chen, Jinghao Wang, Jingkang Yang, and Ziwei Liu. Otter: A
multi-modal model with in-context instruction tuning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.03726, 2023.

[23] Bo Li, Yuanhan Zhang, Dong Guo, Renrui Zhang, Feng Li, Hao Zhang, Kaichen Zhang, Yanwei
Li, Ziwei Liu, and Chunyuan Li. Llava-onevision: Easy visual task transfer. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.03326, 2024. 2, 9

[24] Chunyuan Li, Cliff Wong, Sheng Zhang, Naoto Usuyama, Haotian Liu, Jianwei Yang, Tristan
Naumann, Hoifung Poon, and Jianfeng Gao. LLaVA-med: Training a large language-and-vision
assistant for biomedicine in one day. In Thirty-seventh Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems Datasets and Benchmarks Track, 2023. 1

[25] Feng Li, Renrui Zhang, Hao Zhang, Yuanhan Zhang, Bo Li, Wei Li, Zejun Ma, and Chunyuan
Li. Llava-next-interleave: Tackling multi-image, video, and 3d in large multimodal models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.07895, 2024. 1

[26] KunChang Li, Yinan He, Yi Wang, Yizhuo Li, Wenhai Wang, Ping Luo, Yali Wang, Limin Wang,
and Yu Qiao. Videochat: Chat-centric video understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.06355,

[27] Kunchang Li, Yali Wang, Yinan He, Yizhuo Li, Yi Wang, Yi Liu, Zun Wang, Jilan Xu, Guo
Chen, Ping Luo, Limin Wang, and Yu Qiao. Mvbench: A comprehensive multi-modal video
understanding benchmark, 2024. 10

[28] Yadong Li, Haoze Sun, Mingan Lin, Tianpeng Li, Guosheng Dong, Tao Zhang, Bowen Ding,
Wei Song, Zhenglin Cheng, Yuqi Huo, Song Chen, Xu Li, Da Pan, Shusen Zhang, Xin Wu,
Zheng Liang, Jun Liu, Tao Zhang, Keer Lu, Yaqi Zhao, Yanjun Shen, Fan Yang, Kaicheng Yu,
Tao Lin, Jianhua Xu, Zenan Zhou, and Weipeng Chen. Baichuan-omni technical report. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2410.08565, 2024. 1, 10

[29] Yanwei Li, Chengyao Wang, and Jiaya Jia. Llama-vid: An image is worth 2 tokens in large

language models. 2024. 9

[30] Haotian Liu, Chunyuan Li, Yuheng Li, Bo Li, Yuanhan Zhang, Sheng Shen, and Yong Jae Lee.

Llava-next: Improved reasoning, ocr, and world knowledge, January 2024. 1

[31] Ruyang Liu, Chen Li, Haoran Tang, Yixiao Ge, Ying Shan, and Ge Li. St-llm: Large language

models are effective temporal learners. arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.00308, 2024. 9, 10

[32] Yuanyuan Liu, Wei Dai, Chuanxu Feng, Wenbin Wang, Guanghao Yin, Jiabei Zeng, and
Shiguang Shan. MAFW: A Large-scale, Multi-modal, Compound Affective Database for
Dynamic Facial Expression Recognition in the Wild. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 2022. 1, 8

[33] Zuyan Liu, Yuhao Dong, Ziwei Liu, Winston Hu, Jiwen Lu, and Yongming Rao. Oryx mllm: On-
demand spatial-temporal understanding at arbitrary resolution. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.12961,

[34] Muhammad Maaz, Hanoona Rasheed, Salman Khan, and Fahad Shahbaz Khan. Video-chatgpt:
Towards detailed video understanding via large vision and language models. In Proceedings of
the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL 2024), 2024.

[35] Xinhao Mei, Chutong Meng, Haohe Liu, Qiuqiang Kong, Tom Ko, Chengqi Zhao, Mark D
Plumbley, Yuexian Zou, and Wenwu Wang. Wavcaps: A chatgpt-assisted weakly-labelled audio
captioning dataset for audio-language multimodal research. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio,
Speech, and Language Processing, 2024. 7

[36] OpenAI. Gpt-4 technical report, 2023. 1

[37] OpenAI. Gpt-4v(ision) system card. 2023. 1, 8, 10

[38] OpenAI. Gpt-4o system card, 2024. 9

[39] Vassil Panayotov, Guoguo Chen, Daniel Povey, and Sanjeev Khudanpur. Librispeech: An
asr corpus based on public domain audio books. In 2015 IEEE International Conference on
Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), pages 5206–5210, 2015. 7, 10

[40] Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Tao Xu, Greg Brockman, Christine McLeavey, and Ilya

Sutskever. Robust speech recognition via large-scale weak supervision, 2022. 3, 7

[41] Licai Sun, Zheng Lian, Bin Liu, and Jianhua Tao. Mae-dfer: Efficient masked autoencoder
for self-supervised dynamic facial expression recognition. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM
International Conference on Multimedia, page 6110–6121, 2023. 8

[42] Licai Sun, Zheng Lian, Bin Liu, and Jianhua Tao. Hicmae: Hierarchical contrastive
masked autoencoder for self-supervised audio-visual emotion recognition. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2401.05698, 2024. 8

[43] Gemini Team. Gemini: A family of highly capable multimodal models, 2024. 1

[44] Qwen team. Qwen2-vl. 2024. 5, 8, 9, 10

[45] Qwen Team. Qwen2.5: A party of foundation models, September 2024. 2, 5

[46] Benjamin van Niekerk, Marc-André Carbonneau, Julian Zaïdi, Matthew Baas, Hugo Seuté, and
Herman Kamper. A comparison of discrete and soft speech units for improved voice conversion.
In ICASSP, 2022. 8

[47] Jiawei Wang, Liping Yuan, Yuchen Zhang, and Haomiao Sun. Tarsier: Recipes for training and

evaluating large video description models, 2024. 9

[48] Yan Wang, Yixuan Sun, Yiwen Huang, Zhongying Liu, Shuyong Gao, Wei Zhang, Weifeng
Ge, and Wenqiang Zhang. Ferv39k: A large-scale multi-scene dataset for facial expression
recognition in videos, 2022. 8

[49] Yi Wang, Kunchang Li, Xinhao Li, Jiashuo Yu, Yinan He, Guo Chen, Baoqi Pei, Rongkun
Zheng, Jilan Xu, Zun Wang, et al. Internvideo2: Scaling video foundation models for multimodal
video understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2403.15377, 2024. 5

[50] Yuxuan Wang, Cihang Xie, Yang Liu, and Zilong Zheng. Videollamb: Long video understanding

with recurrent memory bridges. arxiv, 2024. 10

[51] Zhifei Xie and Changqiao Wu. Mini-omni: Language models can hear, talk while thinking in

streaming, 2024. 1

[52] Zhifei Xie and Changqiao Wu. Mini-omni2: Towards open-source gpt-4o with vision, speech

and duplex capabilities. ArXiv, abs/2410.11190, 2024. 10

[53] Lin Xu, Yilin Zhao, Daquan Zhou, Zhijie Lin, See Kiong Ng, and Jiashi Feng. Pllava :
Parameter-free llava extension from images to videos for video dense captioning, 2024. 9, 10

[54] Qize Yang, Detao Bai, Yi-Xing Peng, and Xihan Wei. Omni-emotion: Extending video
mllm with detailed face and audio modeling for multimodal emotion analysis. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2501.09502, 2025. 1, 3

[55] Qinghao Ye, Haiyang Xu, Guohai Xu, Jiabo Ye, Ming Yan, Yi Zhou, Junyan Wang, Anwen Hu,
Pengcheng Shi, Yaya Shi, Chenliang Li, Yuanhong Xu, Hehong Chen, Junfeng Tian, Qiang
Qi, Ji Chao Zhang, and Feiyan Huang. mplug-owl: Modularization empowers large language
models with multimodality. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.14178, 2023. 1, 10

[56] Qinghao Ye, Haiyang Xu, Guohai Xu, Jiabo Ye, Ming Yan, Yiyang Zhou, Junyang Wang,
Anwen Hu, Pengcheng Shi, Yaya Shi, et al. mplug-owl: Modularization empowers large
language models with multimodality. arXiv preprint arXiv:2304.14178, 2023.

[57] Qinghao Ye, Haiyang Xu, Jiabo Ye, Ming Yan, Haowei Liu, Qi Qian, Ji Zhang, Fei Huang, and
Jingren Zhou. mplug-owl2: Revolutionizing multi-modal large language model with modality
collaboration, 2023. 1

[58] Xiaohua Zhai, Basil Mustafa, Alexander Kolesnikov, and Lucas Beyer. Sigmoid loss for
language image pre-training. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on
Computer Vision, pages 11975–11986, 2023. 2

[59] Binbin Zhang, Hang Lv, Pengcheng Guo, Qijie Shao, Chao Yang, Lei Xie, Xin Xu, Hui Bu,
Xiaoyu Chen, Chenchen Zeng, et al. Wenetspeech: A 10000+ hours multi-domain mandarin
In ICASSP 2022-2022 IEEE International Conference on
corpus for speech recognition.
Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), pages 6182–6186. IEEE, 2022. 7, 10

[60] Hang Zhang, Xin Li, and Lidong Bing. Video-llama: An instruction-tuned audio-visual language

model for video understanding. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.02858, 2023. 9, 10

[61] Pan Zhang, Xiaoyi Dong, Yuhang Cao, Yuhang Zang, Rui Qian, Xilin Wei, Lin Chen, Yifei Li,
Junbo Niu, Shuangrui Ding, Qipeng Guo, Haodong Duan, Xin Chen, Han Lv, Zheng Nie, Min
Zhang, Bin Wang, Wenwei Zhang, Xinyue Zhang, Jiaye Ge, Wei Li, Jingwen Li, Zhongying
Tu, Conghui He, Xingcheng Zhang, Kai Chen, Yu Qiao, Dahua Lin, and Jiaqi Wang. Internlm-
xcomposer2.5-omnilive: A comprehensive multimodal system for long-term streaming video
and audio interactions. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.09596, 2024. 8, 9, 10

[62] Renrui Zhang, Jiaming Han, Chris Liu, Peng Gao, Aojun Zhou, Xiangfei Hu, Shilin Yan, Pan
Lu, Hongsheng Li, and Yu Qiao. Llama-adapter: Efficient fine-tuning of language models with
zero-init attention. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.16199, 2023. 10

[63] Yuanhan Zhang, Bo Li, haotian Liu, Yong jae Lee, Liangke Gui, Di Fu, Jiashi Feng, Ziwei Liu,

and Chunyuan Li. Llava-next: A strong zero-shot video understanding model, April 2024. 9

[64] Jiaxing Zhao, Boyuan Sun, Xiang Chen, and Xihan Wei. Facial dynamics in video: Instruction

tuning for improved facial expression perception and contextual awareness, 2025. 9

[65] Jiaxing Zhao, Boyuan Sun, Xiang Chen, Xihan Wei, and Qibin Hou. Llava-octopus: Unlocking

instruction-driven adaptive projector fusion for video understanding, 2025. 2

[66] Zengqun Zhao and Ioannis Patras. Prompting visual-language models for dynamic facial
expression recognition. In British Machine Vision Conference (BMVC), pages 1–14, 2023. 1, 8

[67] Deyao Zhu, Jun Chen, Xiaoqian Shen, Xiang Li, and Mohamed Elhoseiny. Minigpt-4: En-
hancing vision-language understanding with advanced large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2304.10592, 2023. 1
