PreMind: Multi-Agent Video Understanding for Advanced Indexing of
Presentation-style Videos

Kangda Wei‡*, Zhengyu Zhou, Bingqing Wang, Jun Araki,
Lukas Lange, Ruihong Huang‡, Zhe Feng
Bosch Research North America & Bosch Center for Artificial Intelligence (BCAI)
‡Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Texas A&M University
kangda@tamu.edu, {Zhengyu.Zhou2, Bingqing.Wang, Jun.Araki}@us.bosch.com,
Lukas.Lange@de.bosch.com, huangrh@cse.tamu.edu, Zhe.Feng2@us.bosch.com

Abstract

In recent years, online lecture videos have
become an increasingly popular resource for
acquiring new knowledge. Systems capable
of effectively understanding/indexing lecture
videos are thus highly desirable, enabling down-
stream tasks like question answering to help
users efficiently locate specific information
within videos. This work proposes PreMind, a
novel multi-agent multimodal framework that
leverages various large models for advanced
understanding/indexing of presentation-style
videos. PreMind first segments videos into
slide-presentation segments using a Vision-
Language Model (VLM) to enhance modern
shot-detection techniques. Each segment is
then analyzed to generate multimodal indexes
through three key steps: (1) extracting slide
visual content, (2) transcribing speech narra-
tives, and (3) consolidating these visual and
speech contents into an integrated understand-
ing. Three innovative mechanisms are also
proposed to improve performance: leveraging
prior lecture knowledge to refine visual under-
standing, detecting/correcting speech transcrip-
tion errors using a VLM, and utilizing a critic
agent for dynamic iterative self-reflection in vi-
sion analysis. Compared to traditional video
indexing methods, PreMind captures rich, re-
liable multimodal information, allowing users
to search for details like abbreviations shown
only on slides. Systematic evaluations on the
public LPM dataset and an internal enterprise
dataset are conducted to validate PreMind’s
effectiveness, supported by detailed analyses.

Introduction

Recent technological advancements have led to
the proliferation of online videos, which increas-
ingly become an important source for learning new
knowledge (Soni and Dubey, 2019). Presentation-
style lecture videos, which mainly present slides
sequentially, are widely used for online courses and

*Work done during an internship at Bosch Research North America.

trainings (Mishra et al., 2023). Systems that can ef-
fectively understand and index rich content of such
videos thus become desirable (Mishra et al., 2023),
which could lead to advanced downstream appli-
cations such as question answering (QA) based
on video details in various modalities. However,
state-of-the-art (SOTA) approaches for indexing
video content (Iyer et al., 2019; Saoudi and Jai An-
daloussi, 2021) remain unsatisfactory, as they fail
to capture detailed multimodal information. With
the rapid advancements in large language model
(LLM) technology (Zhao et al., 2023; Chang et al.,
2024), Video Large Language Models (Vid-LLMs)
(Lin et al., 2023; Team et al., 2024) have emerged,
enabling users to directly ask questions about pro-
vided videos (Pan et al., 2023). However, Vid-LLM
cannot answer questions that require systems to
find the answers from a large number of videos due
to its design and computation limitation.

In this work, we propose PreMind, a novel multi-
agent multimodal framework that leverages vari-
ous large models to capture detailed multimodal
information in presentation-style lecture videos,
leading to information-rich indexes that can ben-
efit downstream tasks such as QA. For this work,
we adopt the broad understanding of agents, view-
ing agents as system components that each has its
own goals and work together to achieve a common
goal (Wang et al., 2024a). PreMind begins with
a video segmentation component that combines
a SOTA vision-based approach for segmentation
with VLM to efficiently and reliably segment a
video into many video segments, each covering
one presentation slide. Then, PreMind generates
textual description for each segment with an ad-
vanced video-segment understanding component.
For each segment, the component leverages ap-
propriate agents to understand visual information,
capture speech narrative, and generate a consoli-
dated description. The component also involves
innovative mechanisms to (i) improve vision under-

standing by leveraging knowledge learned previ-
ously in the video lecture, (ii) automatically correct
speech recognition errors with VLM based on vi-
sual information and speech transcript, and (iii)
further improve vision understanding through dy-
namic self-refinement with a critic agent. Based on
the information-rich indexes created, downstream
tasks such as retrieval-based QA and summariza-
tion can be implemented for various applications.
We evaluate PreMind using public LPM dataset
(Lee et al., 2023) as well as an enterprise inter-
nal dataset. Both intrinsic evaluation and extrinsic
evaluation are conducted. The evaluation results
show the effectiveness of PreMind, demonstrating
the value of capturing detailed multi-modal infor-
mation in indexes, as well as the benefits of the
proposed mechanisms for the video understand-
ing/indexing task. To summarize, our contributions
include:
• We introduce PreMind, a multi-agent multi-
modal framework that uses various large models
to capture accurate and detailed multi-model in-
formation from presentation-style lecture videos,
which can further benefit the possible down-
stream applications such as QA.

• We demonstrate the effectiveness of PreMind on
the public LPM dataset (Lee et al., 2023) and an
enterprise internal dataset through intrinsic and
extrinsic evaluations.

• We conduct ablation studies to evaluate the effi-
cacy of different mechanisms within PreMind,
and present comprehensive analyses of frame-
work’s efficiency as well as case studies.

2 Related Work

Lecture Video Indexing
Indexing lecture videos
is an increasingly crucial task for enhancing access
to relevant content within educational materials,
which often involves video segmentation and in-
formation extraction from video segments. For
segmentation, Chand and O˘gul (2021) used Voice
Activity Detection and Gaussian Mixture Models
to segment videos based on speech. Shah et al.
(2015) aligns spoken content with Wikipedia text
for better segmentation. Jeong et al. (2012) ap-
plied SIFT for precise slide detection. For infor-
mation extraction, Optical Character Recognition
(OCR) helps retrieve text from slides and Auto-
matic Speech Recognition (ASR) helps obtaining
the speech in text format. The extracted text is
then used for indexing the video in a content-based

manner. Ip and Chan (1997) used OCR for hier-
archical indexing, while Yang and Meinel (2014)
combined ASR and OCR for comprehensive video
search. Multimodal approaches, like those by Ya-
mamoto et al. (2003) and Lin et al. (2004), integrate
ASR and OCR for improved indexing. However,
indexes generated from previous works (Yang et al.,
2011b; Ma et al., 2017; Yang et al., 2011a; Deb-
nath et al., 2023; Arazzi et al., 2023; Medida and
KASARAPU, 2021) do not have rich multi-modal
information but rather simple text description ob-
tained from OCR or ASR. Despite advancements,
challenges remain in achieving high accuracy in
indexing due to ASR errors, visual variations, and
lecture complexity. However, these issues can be
mitigated with the help of LLMs and VLMs. To the
best of our knowledge, our proposed framework is
the first to utilize Large Models to enhance video
indexing quality.

Video Large Language Models Vid-LLMs are
widely used for tasks involve video understanding
(Abdullah et al., 2024). For Vid-LLM, it typically
uniformly samples a certain numbers of frames
from videos and utilize a visual encoder (Dosovit-
skiy et al., 2020; Radford et al., 2021) to convert
each frame into vector representation. Then, an
adapter is used to map the video embeddings from
visual semantic space to text semantic space of
LLMs. Textual embeddings of instructions are then
added generating responses for downstream tasks
(Zhang et al., 2023; Maaz et al., 2024; Lin et al.,
2024; Song et al., 2024; Chen et al., 2023; Ma et al.,
2024), or a specially designed task-specific head
can be used to perform regression tasks (Yu et al.,
2023; Huang et al., 2024; Ren et al., 2024; Li et al.,
2024). For Vid-LLMs, although previous works
have demonstrated impressive video understanding
capabilities, they are not well-suited for content-
based lecture video indexing. One limitation lies in
their sampling strategy, which is suboptimal as it
can result in redundant information or the omission
of critical details (Wang et al., 2024b), thus not suit-
able for video indexing that requires segmentation.
Additionally, these systems are mostly designed to
process one query about one video or several at
a time in an online fashion, thus not suitable for
indexing videos.

3 Method

The overall structure of PreMind is illustrated in
Figure 1. It consists of a video segmentation com-


Figure 1: Illustration of the proposed PreMind framework.

ponent and a video-segment understanding compo-
nent, generating three understanding results based
on vision, speech, and consolidated information,
respectively, as the output indexes. Given a number
of lecture videos, PreMind processes the videos
one by one, and the resulting pool of indexes can
be used in downstream tasks.

3.1 Video Segmentation

The video segmentation component attempts to seg-
ment a training video into multiple segments, each
covering the presentation of one slide. We adopt
the state-of-the-art PySceneDetect (Gruzman and
Kostenkova, 2014; Reddy and Jadhav, 2015) to con-
duct the first-round segmentation. PySceneDetect
faces two major challenges for this task, (1) often
missing slide with similar layout as the precedent
one and (2) splitting the presentation of a single
slide into multiple segments due to background
changes. Therefore, we innovatively use VLM
to refine the segmentation when needed. After
the first-round segmentation, for long segments
(>1 minute) detected by PySceneDetect, we apply
VLM to re-detect slides (StepA) in that segment
with the aim of catching the missed slides. The
time span for each newly detected slide is deter-
mined using vision and audio cues (StepB). For
other segments, VLM is leveraged to merge the
current segment with the previous one if the two
segments are deemed as presenting a same slide.
More details of our proposed video segmentation
algorithm is shown in Appendix A.1.

3.2 Video-Segment Understanding

With the obtained video segments, denoted as
{S1, S2, ..., Sn}, the video-segment understanding
component attempts to understand/index the con-
tent of each segment Si with a multi-agent solution,
as shown in Figure 1. We develop the understand-
ing component in an incremental way. First, we de-
sign a baseline understanding system, which adopts
three separate agents to extract audio, vision, and
consolidated information from the segment. We
then leverage knowledge to enhance the vision un-
derstanding, extracting knowledge per slide, keep-
ing a knowledge memory for the lecture in focus,
and leveraging the previously-learned knowledge
to understand the current slide. We further reduce
the impact of ASR errors on understanding results
by leveraging VLM to automatically correct ASR
errors based on both speech transcription and slide
visual content. Finally, we introduce a critic agent
to dynamically refine vision understanding result in
a self-reflection manner. Prompt templates for all
agents/algorithms can be found in Appendix A.5.

3.2.1 Baseline System
• Audio Understanding Agent: This agent uses
a ASR model to generate a speech transcript, de-
noted as transcripti, for each segment Si. In
practice, the ASR model is applied to transcribe
the whole video in focus. After the video seg-
mentation process, the audio understanding agent
extracts transcripti for Si from the whole tran-
script based on the starting/ending times of Si.
• Vision Understanding Agent: Given Si, this
agent generates a detailed description of the slide
presented in the segment using a SOTA VLM. It

Audio Understanding Agent(speech-to-text)Vision-Audio Consolidation AgentVideo Segment UnderstandingConstructed Knowledge MemoryVision-based Keyword Extraction and ASR Error Correction AgentVisionAudioASR correctionRetrievedknowledgeKeywordsVisionKnowledge Extraction AgentNew     knowledgeCritic AgentVideo SegmentationVideo SegmentsSegment 0Segment 1…Segment nSpeech transcriptKnowledge-related EnhancementDynamic CriticBaseline SystemASR CorrectionVision understanding resultVision Understanding AgentSpeech transcriptKeyword-basedKnowledge Retrieval AgentVision understanding resultSpeech transcriptConsolidated informationCreated Indexes:
samples a (representative) video frame from Si
and asks the VLM to describe the slide shown in
that frame image in detail. The description gen-
erated is the vision understanding result, denoted
as vision_understandingi.

• Vision-Audio Consolidation Agent: Based
on the audio and vision understanding results,
the consolidation agent further generates a
consolidated understanding result, denoted as
consolidated_inf ormationi, to provide a good
overall understanding about what is presented in
the video segment Si.

3.2.2 Knowledge-Related Enhancement
• Knowledge Memory: Given a segment Si,
knowledge presented in previous slides may be
helpful to understand the current slide. We
maintain a knowledge memory KM for the
lecture that Si
is part of. The knowledge
memory contains entries in the following for-
mat: knowledgem = {embeddingm, namem,
explanationm}, where m ∈ M and M is the
number of entries in KM . In each entry, namem
stores a concept name, such as Product Life-
cycle Management, explanationm stores the
explanation of that concept, and embeddingm
stores the embedding representation of the con-
cept name, which is obtained by a SentenceTrans-
former model1, for knowledge retrieval. For each
lecture, KM is initially empty. It is then updated
when new knowledge is extracted, starting from
the first segment of the lecture. Notice that, un-
like previous works described in (Hatalis et al.,
2024), where memory is used for tasks that only
involve text, we keep a knowledge memory that
contain multi-modal information from previous
video segments to help understand current seg-
ment.

• Knowledge Extraction Agent: This agent ex-
tracts new knowledge from the consolidated un-
derstanding result for Si, and updates KM corre-
spondingly. It asks a SOTA LLM to extract con-
cepts, each including a concept name and an ex-
planation, from consolidated_inf ormationi.
For each extracted concept, embedding represen-
tation of the concept name, e, is computed with
the SentenceTransformer, and entries in KM
are ranked by cosine similarity between e and
embeddingm. If the top-ranked entry has a simi-
larity score less than 0.7, the extracted concept is
deemed new and we update the KM by inserting

1https://www.sbert.net/

the concept as a new entry. Otherwise, the top-
ranked entry is deemed to have similar concept
with the extracted concept. In this case, we up-
date the top-ranked entry knowledgej by (1) ap-
pending the explanation of the extracted concept
to explanationj and (2) updating embeddingj
as the rolling average of embeddingj and e.
• Keyword Extraction (Part of the Keyword Ex-
traction and ASR Error Correction Agent):
Given Si, we extract a set of keywords, denoted
as keywordsi, from the slide vision using a
VLM. These keywords are then used to retrieve
relevant knowledge from KM . In this work, we
merge the tasks of keyword extraction and ASR
error correction into one agent, using one VLM
prompt to accomplish the two tasks at the same
time for improved efficiency and performance.
• Keyword-based Knowledge Retrieval Agent:
With keywordsi extracted from Si, this agent
retrieves relevant knowledge from KM to facili-
tate vision understanding. For each keyword in
keywordsi, the agent computes its embedding
representation using the SentenceTransformer
model, and then ranks the KM entries by cosine
similarity between the keyword’s embedding and
embeddingm. Among the top 10 entries, those
entries with similarity score larger than 0.7 are
deemed relevant, and are provided to the vision
understanding agent as context.

3.2.3 ASR Correction

Mistakes made by ASR model have a negative im-
pact on the quality of generated understanding re-
sults. To reduce ASR errors, this work proposes an
innovative approach that leverages reliable visual
information, i.e., the keywords extracted from slide
vision, to correct ASR errors using a VLM, while
previous works on ASR correction mainly rely on
ASR results alone (Ma et al., 2023, 2025). For the
keyword extraction and ASR error correction agent,
given Si, we use one prompt to ask the VLM to
(1) extract keywords shown in the slide, and (2)
check transcripti to identify possible ASR mis-
takes made on the keywords and make correction
suggestions. The combination of the two tasks not
only enhances efficiency but also benefit the per-
formance of ASR correction, as constraining the
correction scope to keywords helps reduce halluci-
nation of VLM on ASR correction.


3.2.4 Dynamic Critic

LLM self-reflection has been found effective
for various text processing tasks(Madaan et al.,
2023; Liang et al., 2024).
In this work, we ex-
tend this technique to multi-modal data, intro-
ducing a critic agent to enhance vision under-
standing through iterative reflection. Given the
slide of Si,
the retrieved knowledge, and the
vision_understandingi generated by the Vision
Understanding agent, the critic agent aims to iden-
tify defects of vision_understandingi, such as
counting mistakes and missing figures in descrip-
tion. With the feedback from the critic agent, the
vision understanding agent further improves the un-
derstanding result and sends the updated result to
the critic agent to review. This process iterates until
the critic agent is satisfied with the understanding
result. We realize this dynamic reflection mecha-
nism by grouping the critic agent and the vision
understanding agent into a AutoGen (Wu et al.,
2023) groupchat, which also includes an admin
agent to assist the chatting function. We configure
the groupchat to allow at maximum Nmax vision-
understanding/critic calls in the reflection iteration.
For early termination, we define the chat termina-
tion condition as the ’TERMINATE!!!’ command
issued by the Critic Agent.

4 Experiments and Analyses

4.1 Dataset

Dataset Video # Video Segments #

Total Video
Length(mins)

Table 1: Dataset statistics for video segmentation evalua-
tion. Segments refer to ground-truth segments manually
labeled.

Dataset Video # Video Segments #

Total Video
Length(hours)


Table 2: Dataset statistics for evalution on understanding
performance. Segments are manually labeled for LPM
data but automatically detected for EI data.

We evaluate PreMind on the public LPM dataset
(Lee et al., 2023) and an enterprise internal (EI)
dataset. The LPM dataset contains YouTube lec-
tures across 10 different categories (e.g., biol-
ogy, psychology), having more than 180 hours of

videos and providing manually- segmented slide-
presentation segments for over 9,000 slides in total.
The internal dataset contains 66 videos (6 hours
in total) on various enterprise-training topics. The
videos in both datasets are presentation-style lec-
tures, though the layout of the slide display in the
videos varies. In this work, we randomly sample
a subset of videos per dataset to evaluate video
segmentation performance, as shown in Table 1.
Note that for the LPM videos sampled (listed in
Appendix A.2), the first 10 minutes of each video
is used in video-segmentation evaluation. For the
evaluation of understanding performance, we se-
lect another subset of lectures from the LPM data,
which contains almost 30 hours of videos in to-
tal, due to computational constraints. We use this
LPM subset and the whole EI dataset to evaluate
the video-understanding approaches as well as QA
performance in extrinsic evaluation, as listed in
Table 2. We construct the LPM subset for under-
standing evaluation by (1) selecting the first three
lecture videos from each category except dental,
and (2) for dental videos, which contain 19 subcat-
egories and each video is only around 5 minutes,
selecting all the videos of the first 3 subcategories.

4.2 Video Segmentation Evaluation

4.2.1 Settings

We evaluate our proposed video segmentation ap-
proach and compare it with PySceneDetect in Ta-
ble 1. Details on the parameter tuning as well
as algorithm configurations are provided in Ap-
pendix A.4.1. GPT-4 Vision is used in our proposed
segmentation algorithm. For video-segmentation
evaluation, we report Precision, Recall, and F-1
score for detecting video segments. We also report
the Intersection over Union (IoU) score (ranging
from 0 to 1), which specifies the amount of overlap
on time span between the predicted and ground
truth segments. IoU is calculated as:

IoU =

|A ∩ B|
|A ∪ B|

where A and B are the time spans of the the
predicted and ground-truth segments, respectively.


4.2.2 Video Segmentation Results

Dataset

Algorithm PySceneDetect

Ours PySceneDetect






Table 3: Video segmentation results.

The evaluation results on video segmentation are
shown in Table 3. We can see that our proposed
segmentation approach significantly outperforms
SOTA vision-based approach, demonstrating the
power of VLM. Our approach achieves almost per-
fect results on EI, successfully detecting all pre-
sented slides. The performance on LPM is some-
how imperfect, as the LPM data contains occa-
sional occurrences of animations/demonstrations,
making it more challenging. From efficiency as-
pect, as our proposed segmentation approach only
applies VLM when needed, the computational over-
head introduced with VLM is minimized, and the
segmentation efficiency is largely maintained (as
will be further discussed in Section 4.4).

4.3 Video-Segment Understanding Evaluation

4.3.1 Settings

We conduct video-segment understanding experi-
ments based on the datasets listed in Table 2. For
these experiments, we directly use the provided
manual segmentation for the LPM data and use
our proposed segmentation algorithm to segment
the EI data. Using video segments obtained in
this manner, four incrementally developed video-
segment understanding approaches are applied to
each dataset: (1) the baseline system, (2) plus
knowledge-related enhancement, (3) plus ASR cor-
rection, and (4) plus dynamic critic. Each approach
is applied individually, generating a corresponding
set of understanding results, which are then evalu-
ated and compared to assess their performance. In
this set of experiments, Whisper2 is used to gen-
erate ASR result, and GPT-4 Turbo is used for all
agents that require a VLM/LLM in processing. Al-
gorithm parameters for video-segment understand-
ing are determined empirically, with details pro-
vided in Appendix A.4.2.


Intrinsic Evaluation

Evaluation Approach We first evaluate the four
proposed video-segment understanding approaches

on vision understanding performance. As this is a
challenging task by nature, we adopt human annota-
tion to ensure the evaluation quality, and propose a
pairwise comparison schema for evaluation. Given
a pair of vision understanding results to compare
together with the corresponding slide image, to re-
duce the labeling workload for human, we first ask
GPT-4 Turbo to determine whether the two under-
standing results are consistent in meaning ( prompt
listed in Appendix Table 13).

When an inconsistency is detected, the result
pair is sent to humans for manual quality compar-
ison. For each pair requiring manual evaluation,
a questionnaire is prepared, asking annotators to
determine which result is better and explain their
reasoning based on the slide image and relevant
knowledge. Each questionnaire is completed by
three annotators, and the final judgment is deter-
mined by a majority vote. For EI data, due to
confidential issue, we recruit internal associates to
annotate related questionnaires. For the LPM data,
we leverage Amazon Mechanical Turk 3 for the
annotation, designing special measures to ensure
high quality of annotation (e.g., selecting workers
having trustful records, using dummy questions to
reject irresponsible answers). The details about
the measures and the questionnaire examples are
provided in Appendix A.3.

Total # Win #

Tie #








Table 4: Comparison on vision understanding results
with human evaluation. B refers to the baseline system;
K refers to the knowledge-related enhancement mech-
anism; A refers to the ASR correction mechanism; D
refers to the dynamic critic self-reflection mechanism.

Results Table 4 reports the comparison results
on vision understanding performance for different
video-segment understanding settings against the
baseline system. For each pair of approaches in
comparison, we list (1) the total number of cases
where the final vision-understanding results gener-
ated by the two approaches are deemed different
by GPT-4 Turbo, and (2) among those cases, which
are sent to human annotators to label, the competi-
tion results according to the human annotation. If
the first approach is deemed better than the second
approach according to annotation results, it wins

2https://openai.com/index/whisper/

3https://www.mturk.com/


Question

Question #

Accuracy on LPM (given index type)
All Vision

Speech Consolidation

Question #

Accuracy on EI (given index type)

All Vision

Speech Consolidation

Vision


















Table 5: Question-answering performance on LPM and DC data.

the second approach. If it is deemed similar to
the second approach, a tie occurs. Otherwise, the
first approach loses the competition. From Table 4,
we can see that adding knowledge-related enhance-
ment, ASR correction, and dynamic critic gradually
improves the quality of vision understanding for
both LPM and EI data. Note that the improvement
brought by ASR correction on vision understanding
is indirect (i.e., better speech transcript → better
consolidated info → better extracted knowledge →
better knowledge-assisted vision understanding).
For lose cases, we suspect these are caused by the
noises in the knowledge that is retrieved and fed
into the vision understanding agent. These noises
may distract the agent from important information
during the generation of slide description.

4.3.3 Extrinsic Evaluation with QA

Evaluation Approach We conduct extrinsic eval-
uation by applying the generated indexes for QA
tasks to show the impact of the proposed video-
segment understanding component on downstream
application. With the three indexes (i.e., vision
understanding result, speech transcript, and consol-
idation information) generated for each video seg-
ment in a dataset, we setup a retrieval-augmented
QA system. In this set of experiments, we adopt
the complete video-segment understanding compo-
nent (i.e., the B+K+A+D setting) to generate the
understanding results as textual indexes. For evalu-
ation, we ask GPT-4 Turbo to generate 6 questions
together with the ground-truth answers. Among
the 6 questions, 2 focus on speech, 2 focus on slide
vision, and 2 focus on the consolidated informa-
tion. After using QA to generate an answer for
each question, we further leverage GPT-4 Turbo
to evaluate the answer based on the ground-truth.
The details about the QA settings, question/ground-
truth generation, and the GPT based evaluation are
all provided in Appendix A.4.3.

Results We evaluate the QA performance as the
accuracy of the answers generated by QA. The re-
sults are reported in Table 5. The performance
of only using vision-understanding-result indexes,

Baseline + Knowledge
+ ASR correction



Table 6: QA performance (Accuracy) given the question
set for ASR-correction ablation study (870 questions for
LPM and 102 questions for EI).

only using speech-transcript indexes, only using
consolidated-information indexes, and using all
types of indexes in retrieval are evaluated per ques-
tion type. The results demonstrate the value of cap-
turing multimodal information in indexes for QA.
Each type of indexes (e.g., vision understanding
result) is advantageous for certain kind of questions
(e.g., those asking for vision details not presented
by speech). And adopting indexes of all types bring
the best overall performance.

4.3.4 Ablation Study
Leveraging the QA system, we further conduct ab-
lation study on the benefit of the proposed ASR
correction procedure by comparing the system per-
formance with and without this procedure. For
this evaluation, we generate another set of ques-
tions together with their ground-truth in a similar
way as before. In this case, based on the predicted
ASR corrections, we ask GPT-4 Turbo to gener-
ate questions answerable with the corrected speech
transcript but not answerable without the correc-
tions (See Table 12 for the prompt). With this set
of questions, using only speech-transcript indexes
in the QA system, we evaluate the answer accuracy
as before. We focus on the speech-transcript in-
dexes here for the easiness of interpretation, as the
major impact of ASR Correction is on audio under-
standing result. The evaluation results are shown
in Table 6. We can see that ASR correction brings
substantial improvements on QA accuracy for both
datasets, demonstrating the benefit of correcting
ASR errors on video understanding.

In a similar manner, we also conduct another ab-
lation study on vision-understanding aspect. In this
case, we focus on each pair of vision-understanding
results that has one result determined as better
than the other in human annotation, and ask GPT-4


Baseline
+ Knowledge
+ ASR Correction



Table 7: QA performance (Accuracy) given the ques-
tion set for vision-understanding ablation Study (320
questions for LPM and 66 questions for EI).

Turbo to generate questions answerable with the
better result but not with the other one (See Ta-
ble 12 for the prompt). With these questions, we
evaluate the four proposed video-segment under-
standing settings with QA, using only the vision-
understanding indexes in the QA system in this
case. The results are reported in Table 7. We can
see that both the knowledge-related enhancement
and the dynamic critic mechanism bring substan-
tial improvements on performance. For ASR cor-
rection, which only has indirect impact on vision
understanding, it unsurprisingly brings only mild
improvement on EI, and brings no improvement on
LPM probably due to generation noises.

4.3.5 Case Study

LPM The trends of the metabolic rate of endothermy
and ectorthermy are described in reverse. With
external knowledge of metabolic rate , the trends
are correctly described.

Knowledge

The description of "ERP layer" wrongly includes
certain stages of "PLM layer" due to confusing
slide layout. With external knowledge of PLM
and ERP leveraged, this problem is fixed.

ASR Correction

Dynamic Critic

LPM A professor’s name "Bisque" is correctly

changed to "Bisk".

A domain specific term "Nexeed", previously
recognized as "NextSeat", is corrected.

LPM The starting point for a shaded area in a figure
previously recognized at 6.5, is correctly fixed
to 5.5.

A Venn diagram previously missing from the
description is added.

Table 8: Case study for improvement brought by
knowledge-related enhancement, ASR correction, and
dynamic critic.

We also examine improvements achieved through
knowledge enhancement, ASR correction, and dy-
namic critic separately. Table 8 shows one example
per dataset for each mechanism. We observe that
knowledge is useful to help VLM understand am-
biguous part of slides. For example, on a slide, sev-
eral stages of PLM (product lifecycle management)
are listed right below the ERP (enterprise resource
planning) block. Although the PLM stages are not
connected to the ERP block in the slide, the VLM
wrongly describes that ERP includes those stages.

Video Segmentation

# API calls Video Length (s)

EI Data





Table 9: Efficiency of the PreMind framework. For the
video segmentation procedure, the average length of
the videos and the average number of API calls needed
to segment one video are listed. For video-segment
understanding, the average number of API calls and
the average total time for generating indexes per video
segment are listed. ASR API call is not included as we
only need to call ASR model once per video.

This problem is fixed when definitions of PLM and
ERP are retrieved and provided to the VLM for
vision understanding. The ASR correction proce-
dure excels at refining domain-specific terms and
resolving uncommon or ambiguous names. The dy-
namic critic self-reflection mechanism effectively
addresses specific errors made by the VLM in slide
descriptions, such as misinterpreting numbers in
figures, making counting errors, and missing visual
elements in the slide descriptions.

4.4 Framework Efficiency

We evaluate the efficiency of our proposed frame-
work PreMind in Table 9. Note that the framework
efficiency is largely determined by the API calls
used in various components. For each video, one
ASR API call is needed to generate a transcript for
the whole video. For the video segmentation proce-
dure, except the VLM API calls, the additional pro-
cessing time beyond the first-round PySceneDetect
is negligible. For the video-segment understand-
ing, API calls occupy the majority of processing
time, while the average time for retrieving knowl-
edge from the knowledge memory and the average
time for correcting detected ASR errors per video
segment are 364 ms and 10 ms, respectively.

5 Conclusion

This work proposes PreMind, a novel framework
to understand/index rich multimodal information
for presentation-style lecture videos, with the aim
of enabling advanced downstream applications
such as QA. PreMind involves two components:
video segmentation and video-segment understand-
ing. The video segmentation procedure combines
VLM with PySceneDetect to achieve the desired


performance with high efficiency. The video-
segment understanding component not only cap-
tures visual/audio/consolidated information from
video using large models, but also introduces three
innovative mechanisms to improve the understand-
ing performance. We evaluate PreMind on the
public LPM dataset and an internal dataset and
encouraging experimental results are achieved.

Limitations

PreMind relies heavily on proprietary LLMs and
VLMs for both video segmentation and understand-
ing tasks. Open-sourced models may be used
to substitute proprietary models, but the perfor-
mance may be effected. PreMind is optimized for
presentation-style lecture videos. Its generalizabil-
ity to other video formats, such as freestyle videos
without any slides presented, has not been explored.
The reliance on human annotation for evaluation
introduces subjectivity, particularly in vision un-
derstanding tasks where judgment about descrip-
tion quality can vary across annotators. Future
work will address these limitations by exploring
lightweight and open-sourced model alternatives
and expanding the evaluation to include more di-
verse datasets and video formats.

References

Hasnat Md Abdullah, Tian Liu, Kangda Wei, Shu Kong,
and Ruihong Huang. 2024. Ual-bench: The first com-
prehensive unusual activity localization benchmark.
Preprint, arXiv:2410.01180.

Marco Arazzi, Marco Ferretti, and Antonino Nocera.
2023. Semantic hierarchical indexing for online
video lessons using natural language processing. Big
Data Cogn. Comput., 7:107.

Dipesh Chand and Hasan O˘gul. 2021. A framework
for lecture video segmentation from extracted speech
content. In 2021 IEEE 19th World Symposium on Ap-
plied Machine Intelligence and Informatics (SAMI),
pages 000299–000304.

Yupeng Chang, Xu Wang, Jindong Wang, Yuan Wu,
Linyi Yang, Kaijie Zhu, Hao Chen, Xiaoyuan Yi,
Cunxiang Wang, Yidong Wang, et al. 2024. A sur-
vey on evaluation of large language models. ACM
Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology,

Guo Chen, Yin-Dong Zheng, Jiahao Wang, Jilan Xu,
Yifei Huang, Junting Pan, Yi Wang, Yali Wang,
Yu Qiao, Tong Lu, and Limin Wang. 2023. Vide-
ollm: Modeling video sequence with large language
models. Preprint, arXiv:2305.13292.

Abhijit Debnath, K. Sreenivasa Rao, and Partha Pratim
Das. 2023. A multi-modal lecture video indexing
and retrieval framework with multi-scale residual
attention network and multi-similarity computation.
Signal Image Video Process., 18:1993–2006.

Alexey Dosovitskiy,

Lucas Beyer, Alexander
Kolesnikov, Dirk Weissenborn, Xiaohua Zhai,
Thomas Unterthiner, Mostafa Dehghani, Matthias
Minderer, Georg Heigold, Sylvain Gelly, Jakob
Uszkoreit, and Neil Houlsby. 2020. An image
is worth 16x16 words: Transformers for image
recognition at scale. ArXiv, abs/2010.11929.

Igor S Gruzman and Anna S Kostenkova. 2014. Algo-
rithm of scene change detection in a video sequence
based on the threedimensional histogram of color
images. In 2014 12th International Conference on
Actual Problems of Electronics Instrument Engineer-
ing (APEIE), pages 1–1. IEEE.

Kostas Hatalis, Despina Christou, Joshua Myers, Steven
Jones, Keith Lambert, Adam Amos-Binks, Zohreh
Dannenhauer, and Dustin Dannenhauer. 2024. Mem-
ory matters: The need to improve long-term memory
in llm-agents. Proceedings of the AAAI Symposium
Series, 2(1):277–280.

Bin Huang, Xin Wang, Hong Chen, Zihan Song, and
Wenwu Zhu. 2024. Vtimellm: Empower llm to grasp
video moments. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-
nition (CVPR), pages 14271–14280.

Horace Ho-Shing Ip and Siu-Lok Chan. 1997.
Hypertext-assisted video indexing and content-based
retrieval. In Proceedings of the Eighth ACM Confer-
ence on Hypertext, HYPERTEXT ’97, page 232–233,
New York, NY, USA. Association for Computing
Machinery.

Rahul Radhakrishnan Iyer, Sanjeel Parekh, Vikas Mo-
handoss, Anush Ramsurat, Bhiksha Raj, and Rita
Singh. 2019. Content-based video indexing and re-
trieval using corr-lda. Preprint, arXiv:1602.08581.

Hyun Ji Jeong, Tak-Eun Kim, and Myoung-Ho Kim.
2012. An accurate lecture video segmentation
method by using sift and adaptive threshold. In Ad-
vances in Mobile Multimedia.

Dong Won Lee, Chaitanya Ahuja, Paul Pu Liang, Sanika
Natu, and Louis-Philippe Morency. 2023. Lecture
presentations multimodal dataset: Towards under-
standing multimodality in educational videos. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference
on Computer Vision (ICCV), pages 20087–20098.

Zhaowei Li, Qi Xu, Dong Zhang, Hang Song, YiQing
Cai, Qi Qi, Ran Zhou, Junting Pan, Zefeng Li, Vu Tu,
Zhida Huang, and Tao Wang. 2024. GroundingGPT:
Language enhanced multi-modal grounding model.
In Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume 1:
Long Papers), pages 6657–6678, Bangkok, Thailand.
Association for Computational Linguistics.


Tian Liang, Zhiwei He, Wenxiang Jiao, Xing Wang,
Yan Wang, Rui Wang, Yujiu Yang, Shuming Shi, and
Zhaopeng Tu. 2024. Encouraging divergent thinking
in large language models through multi-agent debate.
In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empiri-
cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages
17889–17904, Miami, Florida, USA. Association for
Computational Linguistics.

Bin Lin, Yang Ye, Bin Zhu, Jiaxi Cui, Munan Ning,
Peng Jin, and Li Yuan. 2023. Video-llava: Learn-
ing united visual representation by alignment before
projection. Preprint, arXiv:2311.10122.

Bin Lin, Yang Ye, Bin Zhu, Jiaxi Cui, Munan Ning,
Peng Jin, and Li Yuan. 2024. Video-LLaVA: Learn-
ing united visual representation by alignment before
projection. In Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
pages 5971–5984, Miami, Florida, USA. Association
for Computational Linguistics.

Ming Lin, J.F. Nunamaker, M. Chau, and Hsinchun
Chen. 2004. Segmentation of lecture videos based on
text: a method combining multiple linguistic features.
In 37th Annual Hawaii International Conference on
System Sciences, 2004. Proceedings of the, pages 9
pp.–.

Katherine Hermann, Sean Welleck, Amir Yazdan-
bakhsh, and Peter Clark. 2023. Self-refine:
erative refinement with self-feedback. Preprint,
arXiv:2303.17651.

Lakshmi Medida and RAMANI KASARAPU. 2021.
An optimized e-lecture video search and indexing
framework. 21:87–96.

Gouri Shankar Mishra, Anand Raj, Amit Kumar,
Aman Kumar Kasaudhan, Pradeep Kumar Mishra,
and Tarun Maini. 2023. Indexing and segmentation
of video contents: A review. In 2023 4th Interna-
tional Conference for Emerging Technology (INCET),
pages 1–9.

Junting Pan, Ziyi Lin, Yuying Ge, Xiatian Zhu, Ren-
rui Zhang, Yi Wang, Yu Qiao, and Hongsheng Li.
2023. Retrieving-to-answer: Zero-shot video ques-
tion answering with frozen large language models.
In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Con-
ference on Computer Vision, pages 272–283.

Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sas-
try, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark,
Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. 2021. Learn-
ing transferable visual models from natural language
supervision. Preprint, arXiv:2103.00020.

Di Ma, Xi Zhang, Xu Ouyang, and Gady Agam. 2017.
Lecture vdeo indexing using boosted margin max-
In 2017 16th IEEE In-
imizing neural networks.
ternational Conference on Machine Learning and
Applications (ICMLA), pages 221–227.

Bindu Reddy and Anita Jadhav. 2015. Comparison of
scene change detection algorithms for videos.
2015 Fifth International Conference on Advanced
Computing & Communication Technologies, pages
84–89. IEEE.

Fan Ma, Xiaojie Jin, Heng Wang, Yuchen Xian, Jiashi
Feng, and Yi Yang. 2024. Vista-llama: Reducing
hallucination in video language models via equal
In Proceedings of the
distance to visual tokens.
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pat-
tern Recognition (CVPR), pages 13151–13160.

Shuhuai Ren, Linli Yao, Shicheng Li, Xu Sun, and
Lu Hou. 2024. Timechat: A time-sensitive multi-
modal large language model for long video under-
standing. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Confer-
ence on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), pages 14313–14323.

Rao Ma, Mengjie Qian, Mark Gales, and Kate Knill.
2025. Asr error correction using large language mod-
els. Preprint, arXiv:2409.09554.

ElMehdi Saoudi and Said Jai Andaloussi. 2021. A dis-
tributed content-based video retrieval system for large
data-sets.

Rao Ma, Mengjie Qian, Potsawee Manakul, Mark Gales,
and Kate Knill. 2023. Can generative large lan-
guage models perform asr error correction? Preprint,
arXiv:2307.04172.

Muhammad Maaz, Hanoona Rasheed, Salman Khan,
and Fahad Khan. 2024. Video-ChatGPT: Towards
detailed video understanding via large vision and
language models. In Proceedings of the 62nd An-
nual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 12585–
12602, Bangkok, Thailand. Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics.

Aman Madaan, Niket Tandon, Prakhar Gupta, Skyler
Hallinan, Luyu Gao, Sarah Wiegreffe, Uri Alon,
Nouha Dziri, Shrimai Prabhumoye, Yiming Yang,
Shashank Gupta, Bodhisattwa Prasad Majumder,

Rajiv Ratn Shah, Yi Yu, Anwar Dilawar Shaikh, and
Roger Zimmermann. 2015. Trace: Linguistic-based
approach for automatic lecture video segmentation
leveraging wikipedia texts. 2015 IEEE International
Symposium on Multimedia (ISM), pages 217–220.

Enxin Song, Wenhao Chai, Guanhong Wang, Yucheng
Zhang, Haoyang Zhou, Feiyang Wu, Haozhe Chi,
Xun Guo, Tian Ye, Yanting Zhang, Yan Lu, Jenq-
Neng Hwang, and Gaoang Wang. 2024. Moviechat:
From dense token to sparse memory for long video
understanding. Preprint, arXiv:2307.16449.

Shraddha Soni and Shubham Dubey. 2019. Towards

systematic literature review of e-learning.

Gemini Team, Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud, Jean-
Baptiste Alayrac, Jiahui Yu, Radu Soricut, Johan
Schalkwyk, Andrew M. Dai, Anja Hauth, and et al.


Wayne Xin Zhao, Kun Zhou, Junyi Li, Tianyi Tang,
Xiaolei Wang, Yupeng Hou, Yingqian Min, Beichen
Zhang, Junjie Zhang, Zican Dong, et al. 2023. A
survey of large language models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2303.18223.

2024. Gemini: A family of highly capable multi-
modal models. Preprint, arXiv:2312.11805.

Lei Wang, Chen Ma, Xueyang Feng, Zeyu Zhang, Hao
Yang, Jingsen Zhang, Zhiyuan Chen, Jiakai Tang,
Xu Chen, Yankai Lin, Wayne Xin Zhao, Zhewei Wei,
and Jirong Wen. 2024a. A survey on large language
model based autonomous agents. Frontiers of Com-
puter Science, 18(6).

Zhou Wang, A.C. Bovik, H.R. Sheikh, and E.P. Simon-
celli. 2004. Image quality assessment: from error
visibility to structural similarity. IEEE Transactions
on Image Processing, 13(4):600–612.

Ziyang Wang, Shoubin Yu, Elias Stengel-Eskin, Jae-
hong Yoon, Feng Cheng, Gedas Bertasius, and Mo-
hit Bansal. 2024b. Videotree: Adaptive tree-based
video representation for llm reasoning on long videos.
Preprint, arXiv:2405.19209.

Qingyun Wu, Gagan Bansal, Jieyu Zhang, Yiran
Wu, Beibin Li, Erkang Zhu, Li Jiang, Xiaoyun
Zhang, Shaokun Zhang, Jiale Liu, Ahmed Hassan
Awadallah, Ryen W White, Doug Burger, and Chi
Wang. 2023. Autogen: Enabling next-gen llm ap-
plications via multi-agent conversation. Preprint,
arXiv:2308.08155.

Natsuo Yamamoto, Jun Ogata, and Yasuo Ariki. 2003.
Topic segmentation and retrieval system for lecture
videos based on spontaneous speech recognition. In
8th European Conference on Speech Communica-
tion and Technology, EUROSPEECH 2003 - INTER-
SPEECH 2003, Geneva, Switzerland, September 1-4,
2003, pages 961–964. ISCA.

Haojin Yang and Christoph Meinel. 2014. Content
based lecture video retrieval using speech and video
text information. IEEE Transactions on Learning
Technologies, 7(2):142–154.

Haojin Yang, Harald Sack, and Christoph Meinel. 2011a.
Lecture video indexing and analysis using video ocr
technology. 2011 Seventh International Conference
on Signal Image Technology & Internet-Based Sys-
tems, pages 54–61.

Haojin Yang, Maria Siebert, Patrick Lühne, Harald Sack,
and Christoph Meinel. 2011b. Lecture video index-
ing and analysis using video ocr technology.

Shoubin Yu, Jaemin Cho, Prateek Yadav, and Mo-
hit Bansal. 2023.
Self-chained image-language
model for video localization and question answer-
ing. Preprint, arXiv:2305.06988.

Hang Zhang, Xin Li, and Lidong Bing. 2023. Video-
LLaMA: An instruction-tuned audio-visual language
model for video understanding. In Proceedings of
the 2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat-
ural Language Processing: System Demonstrations,
pages 543–553, Singapore. Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics.


A Appendix

The Appendix consists of supplemental materials
in our research journey for the video understanding
topic.

A.1 Video Segmentation Details

Figure 2 shows the details of video (scene) seg-
mentation algorithm, which leverages off-the-shelf
tool PySceneDetect. Meanwhile, a more detailed
description of pseudo code is shown in Figure 3 for
reference.

In the proposed segmentation algorithm, we
merge short segments (e.g., less than 3s) with
the proceeding ones, assuming they are transi-
tions between slides. For the remaining segments
with reasonable duration (e.g., one minute or less),
we re-check whether the current segment actually
presents the same slide as the previous segment,
first using efficient SSIM (structural similarity in-
dex) (Wang et al., 2004) to identify obvious cases
and then using VLM to verify the remaining tricky
ones. If the answer is yes, the two segments are
merged. For the relatively long segments (i.e.,
duration > one minute), we suspect the segment
may actually contain multiple similar slides, and
thus re-detect slides (StepA) using VLM and deter-
mine the presentation time span for each detected
slide (StepB) based on vision/audio hints in this
segment. In StepA, we sample a video frame ev-
ery N _sample seconds in the focused segment,
and use VLM to compare each frame with the pre-
vious one to check whether they contain a same
slide. Whenever the answer is negative, a new slide
is identified. In StepB, we leverage Automatic
Speech Recognition (ASR) results (i.e., sentences
with time stamps) of the focused segment and sam-
ple a video frame from the middle point of the
time span for each sentence. By comparing the
extracted frame per sentence with its neighborhood
detected slides with image similarity, we can deter-
mine which slide the sentence explains, and thus
in this way, estimate the presentation time span of
each detected slide in the focused segment. The de-
tailed approach of StepB is described in Figure 3.
Throughout the segmentation algorithm, we use
a same VLM and the same prompt (shown in Ta-
ble 11) to determine whether two frames contain a
same slide.

Figure 2: Video segmentation algorithm. SSIM is the
Structure Similarity Index, a measure in image assess-
ment, which gives values between 0 and 1. SSIM gives
high similarity, when two images have visually similar
look but have rather different pixel value (e.g. stretch,
mean-shift). While the approach is prone to give a low
measure value, if visual appearance of the two images
is much different.

Video # Video Link

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2NgUY8f1pa8
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2_dZ5GBlRgU
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Awekr6-ilg
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BsXUWddl-as
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N75gvrZfO24
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_Jw3DQ7_pxg

Table 10: LPM videos used for video segemntation
evaluation.

A.2 LPM videos for Video Segmentation

Links for the LPM videos used for video segmen-
tation evaluation can be found in Table 10. Note
only the first 10 minutes are used.

A.3 Benchmark datasets Creation from

Human Annotation.

We take the following measures to ensure the qual-
ity of MTurk annotation.

• Workers qualification: We recruit MTurk
workers who have “Master qualification”, a
Life-Time-Approval-Rate of at least 90%, and
at least 10, 000 tasks approved. In addition,
workers are preferred if English is their first
language, as some lecture videos might be
difficult to follow.

• Test Exercises and Dummy Questions:


Figure 3: Detailed algorithm for StepB of the proposed Video Segmentation approach. In the given segment list, the
list of extraction times refer to the times of the sampled frames that are deemed to contain the same slide in StepA.

Workers are asked to complete two exercises,
which are similar to a typical questionnaire,
before working on a questionnaire set. Fig-
ure 4 is the starting page for the MTurkers,
and as shown in Figure 5 and 6 show the two
exercises for MTurkers, so that they can un-
derstand the assigned task better. If the work-
ers answer the exercises correctly, they will
proceed to a page with explanations for the
exercises, as shown in Figure 7. After check-
ing a box stating that they fully understand
the task, workers will proceed to the question-
naire set. Among the six questionnaires in
the set, one question is exactly the same with
one exercise. This dummy question is used
for quality control. We assume workers who
wrongly answered the dummy question either
rushed through the task or don’t understand
the task. We thus reject the corresponding
questionnaires for quality purpose.

• Compensation: In order to attract qualified
workers to work on our questionnaires, the

compensation for the annotators is set as an
hourly rate of $9, which is higher than the US
federal minimum wage of $7.25,

Please note, some of the figures in this section
are put back in the document due to its screenshot
size.

A.4 System Settings

A.4.1 Experimental settings for the video

segmentation component

We evaluate our proposed video segmentation ap-
proach and compare it with the SOTA PySceneDe-
tect baseline on the datasets listed in Table 1.
Note that our approach also uses PySceneDetect
to conduct first-round video segmentation. In our
approach, we especially tune the PySceneDetect
to minimize the chance of missing slides in seg-
mentation. For fair comparison, for the base-
line PySceneDetect, we tune it again to achieve
its best overall performance. We tune all the al-
gorithm parameters on a separate held-out video
In the proposed video-segmentation ap-

together with the context to GPT 3.5 for answer
generation. For evaluation, we ask GPT-4 Turbo
to generate 2 questions answerable with vision in-
formation but not answerable with speech (denoted
as vision questions), 2 questions answerable with
speech but not answerable with vision information
(denoted as speech questions), and 2 questions that
can be best answered with the consolidated infor-
mation (denoted as consolidation questions). We
also require the model to generate the ground-truth
answer at the same time for each generated ques-
tion to facilitate evaluation (See Table 12 for the
prompt). We then run the retrieval-based QA sys-
tem to generate an answer for each question. The
correctness of the answer generated by QA system
is also evaluated by GPT-4 Turbo using the prompt
shown in Table 13.

A.5 Prompts used in the Experiments

We list the prompts used in the experiments in the
later part of Appendix, due to its table size. Ta-
ble 11 lists the prompts used in all the agents of the
proposed framework. Table 12 shows the prompts
used to generate the questions together with the
corresponding ground-truth answers for the extrin-
sic evaluation with QA, the ablation study on ASR
correction, and the ablation study on vision under-
standing, respectively. Table 13 presents (1) the
prompt that is used to determine whether two vision
understanding results are inconsistent (i.e., contain-
ing conflicting information), and (2) the prompt
that is used to determine whether an answer gen-
erated by the QA system is correct based on the
question and the corresponding ground-truth. All
prompts are carefully designed.

proach, T hreshold1, T hreshold2, T hreshold3
and T hreshold4 are set as 3 seconds, 60 sec-
onds, 0.9, 0.65, respectively, and N _sample is
set as 60 seconds. For PySceneDetect, Adap-
tiveDetector is used with adaptive_threshold set
as 1 and min_content_val set as 10. For the base-
line PySceneDetect, ContentDetector is adopted
with threshold set as 12. In this work, we adopt
GPT 4 Vision as the VLM used in our proposed
segmentation algorithm.

We set temperature as 0 and max_tokens as 800

for all GPT 4 models used in this work.

A.4.2 Experimental settings for the
video-segment understanding
component

In this work, GPT-4 Turbo is used for all agents
that require a VLM or LLM in processing in the
Video-Segment Understanding component.

In ASR recognition,

the Whisper model is
used to transcribe speech into text for each video.
To further reduce hallucination, among the cor-
rections suggested by the VLM, we only mod-
ify transcripti accordingly if the suggestion is
"termA should be termB" and the acoustic differ-
ence level between termA and termB (evaluated
using PyPhonetics4) is less than 5, which means
the two terms likely have similar pronunciations.
For ASR correction, the acoustic difference level
between two terms is evaluated using the Refined-
Soundex.distance function of PyPhonetics.
For the dynamic critic, Nmax is set to 10.

A.4.3 Experimental Settings of the QA system
used in the extrinsic evaluation

We setup a Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)
based QA system for extrinsic evaluation. The
RAG based QA system is composed of a retriever
based on FAISS5 and a reader using LangChain6.
In the index-building process, the three multi-
modal agents generates the understanding result
respectively (including vision understanding result,
speech transcript, and consolidation information).
For each segment, the retriever builds up an embed-
ding vector for that segmented scene(slide), which
is added to the FAISS index. The embedding model
is SentenceTransformer/all-MiniLM-L6-v2. In the
retrieval and QA phase, the reader wraps up the top
5 retrieval results as context, and sends the question

4https://pypi.org/project/pyphonetics/
5https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss
6https://www.langchain.com/


Agent/Algorithm

Video


For the two images provided, if both images appear to be digitally corrupted or distorted, answer with "Yes. Both images are
corrupted." and terminate the response. Otherwise, do the following: For the two images provided, each should show a person or
several people presenting a slide. Is the slide shown in the first image the same as the one shown in the second image? Please check
very carefully for different texts within the slides. Please start your answer with "Yes. " if the slides are the same and "No. " if the
slides are different. Then give an explanation for your answer.

Vision
Understanding
Agent (Baseline

Given the image provided, please follow the following rules to generate a description:
(1) If this image contains a slide that occupies at least half of the image, please describe the content of that slide in detail. In this
case, when generating the description, please only focus on the slide’s content, and ignore the slide’s bottom part such as slide
number, footnotes, company logo, etc. as well as other parts of the image. If there are one or more humans presented in the image,
please also ignore the humans and don’t include them in the description in this case.
(2) Otherwise, if there is no significant slide in the image, please simply describe the image.

Vision
Understanding
Agent


Given the image provided, we have the following background knowledge that are likely to be relevant:
{retrieved knowledge}
Based on the given image and the background knowledge, please follow the following rules to generate a description:
(1) If this image contains a slide that occupies at least half of the image, please describe the content of that slide in detail. In this
case, when generating the description, please only focus on the slide’s content, and ignore the slide’s bottom part such as slide
number, footnotes, company logo, etc. as well as other parts of the image. If there are one or more humans presented in the image,
please also ignore the humans and don’t include them in the description in this case.
(2) Otherwise, if there is no significant slide in the image, please simple describe the image.

Given a video of someone presenting a slide, the text description of the slide (Part_1), and the speech narrative of the presentation
(Part_2) are provided below. Please consolidate the two parts into a nice overall description of the video content.
Part_1. The text description of slide: {vision understanding result}
Part_2. The speech narrative of the presentation: {speech transcript}

Vision-based
Keyword
Extraction and

Transcribed speech explanation for the image above: {speech transcript}
Given the provided image and its speech explanation transcript listed above, if the provided image contains a slide, extract the
keywords (i.e., important words or phrases) from the slide. Then, check the transcribed speech explanation to see whether any
keyword is misrecognized as other word or word sequence with similar pronunciation. Please generate the response following the
format below:

List of keywords:
- keyword1
(If a detected keyword contains ’,’ or ’;’ in middle, it should be split into multiple keywords. If no keyword is detected or the
slide/image is empty, just leave the list of keywords empty.)

Answer for whether certain keyword(s) is misrecognized: Yes or No (if the answer is Yes, provide the following expla-
nation:)
The term *** should be ****.
The term *** should be ****.

Given the text description listed below, summarize the concepts presented in this text description. If the text description is not about
a slide presentation, reply with ’No concept extracted’. When generating the output, please follow the following format:
Concept: Concept name
Knowledge of Concept: explanation..
Concept: Concept name
Knowledge of Concept: explanation..
Concept: Concept name
Knowledge of Concept: explanation..
Text description:{consolidated understanding result}

Knowledge
Extraction
Agent

Dynamic Critic Critic Agent: Given an image that contains a slide presentation and a description about the slide presentation, decide whether
the description can be further improved. If the description is not comprehensive or containing potential mistakes, ask Vision
Understanding Agent to improve the description. Otherwise, if the description is comprehensive and accurate, DO NOT repeat the
description and just reply ’TERMINATE!!!’ to Admin.
Vision Understanding Agent: You can generate detailed description of slide presentation based on image provided with previous
knowledge. Start your response with ’Vision Understanding Result:’.
User Proxy: {image}
Given the image provided, we have the following background knowledge that might be relevant: {retrieved knowledge}
Based on the given image and the background knowledge, please use the following rules to generate a description:
(1) If this image contains a slide that occupies at least half of the image, please describe the content of that slide in detail. In this
case, when generating the description, please only focus on the slide’s content, and ignore the slide’s bottom part such as slide
number, footnotes, company logo, etc. as well as other parts of the image. If there are one or more humans presented in the image,
please also ignore the humans and don’t include them in the description in this case.
(2) Otherwise, if the image DOES NOT contain a slide that occupies at least half of the image, just reply ’TERMINATE!!!’ to
Admin.

Table 11: Prompts for all agents used in this paper.


Function

Question
Generation


We have a video segment in which a speaker is presenting a slide. The information about the video segement is summarizied into three
parts, listed below after the "—-" line. The first part, denoted as "Part_1. The text description of slide:", provides a text description of the
vision information presented in the slide. The second part, denoted as "Part_2. The speech narrative of the presentation:", provides the
speech-to-text transcript about what the speaker said about the slide. The third part, denoted as "Part_3. Info-Consolidation Output:",
provides the overall description of the video segment, which consolidates the information from the first part and second part.
Your task is to generate six questions satisfying following requirements respectively, and also generate the corresponding answer for each
generated question.
(1) Generate two questions (referred to as Question_1_vision and Question_2_vision) that are answerable with the slide vision information
(i.e., information provided in the first part), but not answerable with the speech transcript (i.e., information provided in the second part).
(2) Generate two questions (referred to as Question_3_speech and Question_4_speech) that are answerable with the speech transcript (i.e.,
information provided in the second part), but not answerable with the slide vision information (i.e., information provided in the first part).
(3) Generate two questions (referred to as Question_5_consolidated and Question_6_consolidated) that can be best answered with the
consolidated information, i.e., information provided in the third part.

In addition, when generting a question or a answer, please directly talk about the knowledge point and avoid the mentioning of slide,
speech/speaker, and video as information sources (e.g., avoid the use of "according to the speech", "according to the presentation",
"according to according to the consolidated information", "as discussed in the video", "according to the speaker", etc.). For example,
instead of asking a question "How does Business Intelligence aid in the preparation of decisions according to the presentation?", please
directly ask "How does Business Intelligence aid in the preparation of decisions?". Another example is that instead of answering "The slide
indicates that Business Intelligence helps interpret past data to inform future decisions.", please directly answer "Business Intelligence
helps interpret past data to inform future decisions.".
Please also note that if "slide" must be mentioned in a question, please always include slide title to show which slide it is about.
Please provide the generated questions and the answers in the following format:

Question_1_vision:
Answer_1_vision:
Question_2_vision:
Part 1. The text description of slide: {vision understanding result}
Part 2. The speech narrative of the presentation: {speech transcript}
Part 3. Info-Consolidation Output: {consolidated information}

Question
Generation
(ablation study

We have a video segment in which a speaker is presenting a slide. Two visual descriptions about the video segment and their differences
are provided.
Your task is to generate two questions satisfying following requirements, and also generate the corresponding answer for each generated
question.
Generate two questions (referred to as Question_1_vision and Question_2_vision) that are answerable with Description 2, but not
answerable with Description 1.

In addition, when generating a question or a answer, please directly talk about the knowledge point and avoid the mentioning of slide,
speech/speaker, and video as information sources (e.g., avoid the use of "according to the speech", "according to the presentation",
"according to according to the consolidated information", "as discussed in the video", "according to the speaker", etc.). For example,
instead of asking a question "How does Business Intelligence aid in the preparation of decisions according to the presentation?", please
directly ask "How does Business Intelligence aid in the preparation of decisions?". Another example is that instead of answering "The slide
indicates that Business Intelligence helps interpret past data to inform future decisions.", please directly answer "Business Intelligence
helps interpret past data to inform future decisions.".
Please also note that if "slide" must be mentioned in a question, please always include slide title to show which slide it is about.
Please provide the generated questions and the answers in the following example format:

Question_1_vision:
Answer_1_vision:
Question_2_vision:
Description 1: {vision understanding result 1}
Description 2: {vision understanding result 2}
Difference detection result: {difference}

Question
Generation
(ablation study

We have a video segment in which a speaker is presenting a slide. The transcript about the video segment is provided and the corrections, if
any, needed for the transcript.
Your task is to generate two questions satisfying following requirements, and also generate the corresponding answer for each generated
question.
Generate two questions (referred to as Question_3_speech and Question_4_speech) that are answerable with the speech transcript
correction, but not answerable without the speech transcript correction.

In addition, when generating a question or a answer, please directly talk about the knowledge point and avoid the mentioning of slide,
speech/speaker, and video as information sources (e.g., avoid the use of "according to the speech", "according to the presentation",
"according to according to the consolidated information", "as discussed in the video", "according to the speaker", etc.). For example,
instead of asking a question "How does Business Intelligence aid in the preparation of decisions according to the presentation?", please
directly ask "How does Business Intelligence aid in the preparation of decisions?". Another example is that instead of answering "The slide
indicates that Business Intelligence helps interpret past data to inform future decisions.", please directly answer "Business Intelligence
helps interpret past data to inform future decisions.".
Please also note that if "slide" must be mentioned in a question, please always include slide title to show which slide it is about.
Please provide the generated questions and the answers in the following example format:

Question_3_speech:
Answer_3_speech:
Question_4_speech:
Transcript: {original speech transcript}
Transcript correction needed:: {corrections}

Table 12: Prompts for question generation.


Function

Inconsistency
Detection



Given two descriptions about a same slide (listed below), please determine whether there is any
conflict in meaning between the two descriptions.
Please first answer ’Yes’ or ’No’, and if the answer is ’Yes’, explain what the meaning conflict(s)
Description 1: {vision understanding 1}
Description 2: {vision understanding 2}

Given a question and its ground-truth answer, check whether a automatically generated answer is
correct. The question, ground-truth answer, and the automatically generated answer are all listed
below. In your response, please simply say "correct" if you think the generated answer contains
consistent information as the ground-truth answer, simply say "wrong" if you think the generated
answer is wrong (i.e., conflicting with the information in the ground-truth answer, or failing to
include the key messages in the ground-truth answer), and simply say "correct but with additional
information" if you think the generated answer contains the correct answer but includes additional
information not mentioned in the ground-truth answer.

Question: {question}

Ground-truth answer: {ground truth answer}

Automatically generated answer: {predicted answer}

Table 13: Prompts for inconsistency detection given two vision understanding results and for answer correctness
evaluation.

Figure 4: MTurk questionnaire instructions page.


Figure 5: MTurk questionnaire exercise question 1.


Figure 6: MTurk questionnaire exercise question 2. Note that the questionnaires that need annotation share the same
format as this exercise question.


Figure 7: Answer explanation for MTurk questionnaire exercise question 2.

